[Music]
We lost some of that underlying momentum
in the equity market.
>> We're heading towards a seasonally
weaker October.
>> It is getting more challenging as the
valuations are getting tapped out.
>> We are relying on such a small cohort of
names to drive this kind of upside.
>> There's as much melt-up risk as there is
melt down. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hoordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, we've seen this movie
before. The nation's capital barreling
towards a government shutdown as the
divided Federal Reserve might have to
wait for the next jobs report. Equities
are looking to close out September with
a fifth straight month of gains and
we're adding to those gains so far this
morning. Honestly, it's so funny to hear
you talk about the government shutting
down, all the geopolitical risk, the
potential of the Fed chair yet again to
get fired. And here we are potentially
on the cusp of a September with the best
return going back for a September in
2007. Look, we are looking at a market
where seasonality has broken down,
normal correlations have broken down.
What's going to be the next driver up
given some of the skepticism that we
heard particularly last week around the
AI trade and how long that can power
things forward.
>> care about the politics, neither do you.
I care about the data. My question for
Anne Marie who's down in Washington DC,
we'll catch up with her in about 15
minutes time. Will we actually get the
data on Friday if this government shut
down? I was going to tell you this
morning, welcome to ADP week. This is
going to be not necessarily non-farm
payrolls week. This is ADP week. When we
get ADP numbers coming out on Wednesday,
how much does that have the potential to
disproportionately affect the market
especially if it does seem like there is
a shutdown because of the uncertainty
around Friday. This just highlights how
much more every other data point is
really going to make a difference. ADP
coming up later this week. That is the
big one. I hope we get the big one on
Friday. The estimate's 50k. The range
anywhere between 105 at the high end at
the low end, something kind of negative
sign. A negative sign maybe negative 20
on payrolls. 3-month average has dropped
down from 200k at the start of the year
down to 29. We want to see this story
stabilize. We've certainly seen the rate
story stabilize. Is the data story
starting to stabilize too?
>> And what does it mean to stabilize? And
I don't mean to be so philosophical, but
this is a clear debate on the Federal
Reserve. Are we moving to a point where
this is just naturally a low higher low
fire moment where it is going to be
naturally a lower number of jobs created
in any given month? There are lots of
questions around this, the absence of
this data. How much does that increase
the volatility in markets especially
given that this seems to be an inflation
insensitive Federal Reserve. They have
made it clear despite some hawks. I'm
thinking of Cleveland Fed's Beth
Hammack. You aren't seeing a lot of
pushback around the idea that they are
going to cut at least one more time this
year.
>> They've picked a side, protect
employment despite the fact that
inflation is closer to three than it is
to two. They've picked employment. The
spread though, and you've pointed out
Beth Hammack, is that incredibly wide.
And I think risk management, that phrase
they used a few weeks ago, a risk
management rate cut, I think that's just
code for we can't agree on things right
now, so let's just do a risk management
rate cut and we'll work it out in a
month's time. Especially if everyone can
agree on one thing, which is they are
relatively far away from neutral. Maybe
not that far away. Maybe some people are
closer to four, maybe some people are
people are closer to three. Maybe, you
know, the Stephen Myrons of the world
are closer to two. Nonetheless, where we
are now, 4.25%
or 4%, that's already something that
seems a little bit elevated according to
most people on the Fed.
>> We're back on track this morning higher
by 0.5% adding to Friday's gains. The
equity market is positive this morning.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Tony DeSpirito of BlackRock with
investors looking to extend Friday's
gains. We'll talk to the former US
Congressman Patrick McHenry as a
government shutdown looms over
Washington. And we'll speak to Jim
Bianco of Bianco Research with the Fed's
path looking even more uncertain. We
begin this hour with stocks climbing to
kick off a busy week full of economic
data. Tony DeSpirito of BlackRock
writing pockets of irrational exuberance
and a trading environment dominated by
non-fundamental investors create
abundant opportunities for skilled stock
pickers. Tony joins us now for more.
Tony, good morning. Good morning. It's
good to see you. You mentioned that
phrase irrational exuberance, pockets
of. Where do you see those pockets right
now? Yeah, so I I was very careful to
use the word pockets cuz I don't think
that applies to the whole market. And
but I do see a market where, you know,
as I've discussed, the the nature of the
participants has changed. Fewer
fundamental investors, more high
frequency traders, more retail
investors. I think that helps fuel maybe
some of those pockets. And then where I
see the pockets are things like price
following strategies are doing very
well.
Unprofitable companies are doing very
Some meme stocks. On the flip side,
what's doing poorly? Min vol's doing
poorly. Dividend payers are doing
poorly. Etc. And so that's where I see
the pockets of
irrational exuberance.
>> You've heard the phrase irrational
exuberance before. We all have. It goes
back to the mid-90s. And we came out of
Greenspan's mouth, there were still a
few more years to go. The debate that
we've had around this table a few times
over the last month or so is whether
it's the mid-90s or the late 90s. I
think we've got to ask also whether
that's even an appropriate benchmark to
think about stock markets in 2025. How
are you thinking about those themes?
>> Yes, so I think about it differently,
which is I think about it in terms of is
it a good market to be a stock picker?
And I hear some people complain about
some of these pockets of irrationality.
But to be a good stock picker, you
actually need mispricings, right? And so
I really like a market where I see the
pockets of mispricings. In terms of the
In terms of the market overall, I think
we're on much sounder footing than we
were in the late 90s. How easy is it to
pick stocks when they could potentially
be whipped around by a truth? Yeah, so
uh well, I think I think the goal is you
need the pockets of irrationality, but
you ultimately need rationality to
prevail, right? For a good for a good
stock picking. Um and I do think we have
that market. Um and I think that, you
know, there's a lot of activism in the
market, there's a lot of buyout
opportunities in the market. And so all
those help bring stocks back to where
they belong. When you talk about stock
picking, that makes me think that there
isn't a lot of upside or there isn't as
clear of an upside in the overall
market. Is that correct that you don't
necessarily see the sort of double-digit
gains that we have been seeing for the
past few years. And so right now, it
really depends on picking the winners
and avoiding the losers. Well, we've
had, you know, certainly the two prior
years were big gains, over 20%. This
year above 10%, right? So we've had
three really robust years in a row for
market returns. Starting points matter.
I do think we have to be realistic in
our assumptions about where markets will
take us from here. You know, when you
have a market that's at 23 times, I
think you should have more muted
expectations. It doesn't mean you should
panic, but it just means you should have
more muted expectations for returns
going forward. 20% a year is not normal.
I remember that at the start of the year
it was the same conversation. Here we
are, double-digit returns again. And
that's quite a return so far.
>> not 20%.
>> I'm with you. I'm with you. And it's not
all multiple expansion, it's earnings
too. The biggest capital
tech stocks.
>> of it roughly is earnings expansion. So
earnings have done very well this year.
The weaker dollar has helped
particularly in the large cap space.
But yeah, earnings have been robust, AI
driven, AI related, plus a weaker
dollar.
>> Some of those companies like Nvidia with
a very powerful earning story have
started to anchor other companies and
make investments in them. There is this
question as to whether that's just
financial engineering or a sustainable
anchor for a better future for this
sector. Which side of that debate would
you come down on? Uh really neither. I
mean, I kind of think about it as like
this is a growing area. It's an area
that's going to require a lot of
capital. Um and Nvidia has a lot of cash
for example, right? And so that's what I
see happening, people with cash
deploying their capital, investing in
this wave. I guess another way
of spitting this is where is the area
you're seeing the greatest dislocation?
Is it in tech or is it elsewhere? Well,
one of the things I find really
interesting is that while there's a lot
of enthusiasm in AI and that's well
deserved, I think there are a number of
companies where I see trough trough on
trough. So I think about good
compounding companies
uh but for their cyclically depressed
and the multiples have come down with
that. As a as a value investor, those
have historically been great
investments. I think housing turnover is
one of those areas. So the housing
market's been incredibly weak. Actually,
turnover is way worse than starts,
right? Starts is modestly weak, but
housing turnover is at like
depressionary levels. Um if you measure
housing turnover as a percentage of the
stock, which I think is the right way to
do it, we're at levels that are
basically at the early 1980s when
interest rates were 20% and unemployment
was 10%. So that's deeply depressed. You
can buy some building material stocks at
12, 13 times current earnings. And
current earnings are depressed. They
should grow if nothing else, they should
grow 5% a year long-term, but they
should have a cyclical recovery on top
of that. Um and so you're getting a
really good business cyclically
depressed on the cheap.
>> raises an interesting question. Yield
data over the weekend said if you want
the biggest argument against the US
reacceleration, take a look at the
housing market. You can't have a housing
market that's this flat on its back and
have a reacceleration in the US. Is that
a leading indicator or is that a lagging
indicator, right? I mean, I guess that's
my question to you. Can you bet Can you
bet on the upswing of turnover before
rates come down with rates higher this
year than they were at the same time
last year before all the interest rate
cuts and without a real material plan
for how to revive this market? Well, I
think policy makers are really focused
on this, right? Because this is what
could create a lot of jobs growth.
And so you see, you know, you see a lot
This is why policy makers are really
trying to push on interest rates.
Mortgage rates have come down.
And if you think about like the embedded
mortgage market, it's a bell curve,
right? So you're eating away now at that
bell curve. Now you're starting to see
some refinancing pick up. You're going
to see You're going to start to see some
more turnover as a result.
You know, there's talk about the
administration declaring a housing
emergency, for example, to try to
stimulate housing. So, there's a lot
going on underneath the surface. It's
hard to imagine it gets much worse than
this, given that we're already at those
1980 early 1980s levels. We keep going
back to this issue. When the government
talks about lower interest rates,
they're very clear about what the
objective is. It's lower borrowing
costs, and they want to do something
about this housing market. Now, if you
want to bet against them, of course, go
ahead, but ultimately that's the goal of
this administration.
>> The part of the problem is they keep
talking about short end of the yield
curve. They keep talking about the Fed
cutting rates. But if you take a look at
September through 2024,
mortgage rates are about 33 basis points
higher today than they were before the
Fed cut by 125 basis points. So, if that
is the way that they are going to get
down rates, it isn't affecting mortgages
in the right way, which is part of the
conundrum for so many people.
>> Since the Fed's meeting two weeks ago,
bond yields have shifted just that
little bit higher over the last two
weeks. Tony, can we finish there? What
is the relationship between the short
rate story that Lisa's talking about and
the housing market overall? Yes,
obviously mortgages price off the the
10-year.
Um, the 10-year has started to come
down, right, versus where it was earlier
in the year.
Uh, and then also the spread between
mortgage rates and the 10-year is
abnormally high right now. So, there is
some some room there to bring things
down. Tony, good to see you. Nice of you
to drop in by. Thank you, sir. Tony De
Spirito there of BlackRock kicking off
our conversations for a brand new
trading week. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
Brief. Let's cross over to Yohara Anand.
Hey, Yohara. Hi, John.
President Donald Trump said the
government is likely to shut down unless
Democrats back down from their demands.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer
says a stopgap has to include an
extension of healthcare subsidies. The
top four congressional leaders will meet
with the president at the White House
today, a day before funding is set to
run out.
Meanwhile, the president will be holding
another key meeting at the White House
today. He'll be talking with Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The
meeting comes days after Netanyahu used
the UN address to reject international
demands for an end to the war in Gaza.
Vice President J.D. Vance is expressing
optimism a deal can be reached.
And Team Europe has done it again,
winning the 45th Ryder Cup, defeating
the USA 15 to 13 at Bethpage Black here
in New York. Europe built a substantial
seven-point lead after the first two
days, but the US mounted a Sunday
singles comeback that just came up
short. Shane Lowry and Tyrell Hatton
sink crucially putts to secure the
emotional win for Team Europe. That's
your Bloomberg Brief, John.
Nerve-racking on Sunday afternoon when
it really shouldn't have been that
close. Dominant Friday and Saturday for
Team Europe, and USA coming back really
strong Sunday afternoon.
>> Yeah, Rory definitely coming back. All I
can say is you took Friday off to really
experience it more emotionally.
100% you were there at the Ryder Cup
just experiencing this and preparing
yourself
>> I was.
7:00 a.m. on Friday when Bryson tees
off, the roar of that crowd, the
atmosphere at Bethpage. You were there.
>> I wish I was there.
>> You were there.
>> I was not there. Yeah, I wish I was
there. What time did he tee off? All
right. Up next on the program, avoiding
a government shutdown.
Totally up to the Democrats.
This is the ball is in their court.
There is a bill sitting at the desk in
the Senate right now. We could pick it
up today and and pass it.
>> a real negotiation that you don't do
this by one party putting together a
completely partisan bill. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with the former
chair of the House Financial Services
Committee, Patrick McHenry. Live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Snapped a three-day losing streak on
Friday. The positive follow-through
looks like this this morning, up by 0.5%
on the S&P, up by 0.6 on the Nasdaq.
This from Brian Belski of Take a
listen to this. 7,000 may end up being
too low for year-end on the S&P. Yeah,
we have who are the biggest bull on Wall
Street?
7,700,
right? 7,700. And at what point are we
going to look at other people kind of
upgrading their outlooks? We're already
at some of the outlooks that some people
have for the end of 2026, and the AI
trade just keeps on going.
>> With the Fed cutting interest rates,
earnings solidifying, AI not anywhere
near bubble territory, and the stock
market performance broadening out, the
believability is what and comfortability
of US stocks is back in full swing.
That's the feeling. I mean, we're going
to catch up with Max Kettner later on
this morning from HSBC, and he put out a
titled note in the last week or so that
was just up up and up. Seen a lot of
that. Yeah, well, I wonder if John
Stoltzfus and Brian Belski got in the
same room and Max Kettner joined them. I
think it'd be a little overwhelming for
me because they would all be so
exuberant about the potential
valuations. Nobody can come up with a
reason for this to really stop, except
what happens if the Fed doesn't cut?
What if we don't get data? What if the
if the economy moves faster than we can
really see?
>> We're hoping to get some data. We're
hoping to get some data.
>> ADP. This Friday we're hoping to get
payrolls. Under surveillance this
morning, avoiding a government shutdown.
Totally up to the Democrats.
This is the ball is in their court.
There is a bill sitting at the desk in
the Senate right now. We could pick it
up today and and pass it. That has been
passed by the House that will be signed
into law by the president to keep the
government open. We've been resolute
uh, that we need a meeting, that we need
a real negotiation, that you don't do
this by one party putting together a
completely partisan bill and saying take
it or leave it.
Here's the latest this morning. Top
congressional leaders on both sides will
be meeting with President Donald Trump
at the White House to discuss a
short-term spending bill in an effort to
avoid a government shutdown. With the
latest and with a special guest,
Annmarie joins us now for more. Hi,
Annmarie.
Hey, hey, John. Good morning. We are
looking like we are headed towards a
government shutdown. Even though the
President of the United States will be
sitting down in a bipartisan fashion
with the top leaders from the House and
the Senate. An individual who has been
part of these conversations in the past,
cuz we have been here before, is Patrick
McHenry, former chair of the House
Financial Services Committee. Uh,
Chairman, former chairman, thank you so
much for joining us this morning. Just
going into this meeting this afternoon
at the White House, do you think there
is a chance of a breakthrough and this
Congress can avoid a shutdown?
No. I I don't have high hopes for this.
I think it's a
it's it's unrealistic to to think that
the incentives will change by simply
sitting down with President Trump. The
incentive here right now is for
congressional Democrats to find a way to
fight. That is purely a This is a
mechanism for them to say that we are
relevant. They are only relevant because
they have the filibuster in the Senate,
and Republicans do not have a veto I I'm
sorry, a filibuster-proof majority in
the Senate. Uh, the I continued
resolution, which is merely to keep the
lights on in government for the next 6
weeks,
uh, passed the House. Uh, it now sits in
the Senate.
Uh, and the minority party in the
Senate, the Democrats,
uh, have the say on whether or not the
bill could be brought up, and they have
blocked it last week. They are likely to
block it this week. They need to assure
their base that they're fighting, and
this is their way of doing it.
Could this have any pushback when it
comes to the midterms on Republicans,
given recent polling shows that when it
comes to healthcare policy, which is the
crux of the Democratic issue right now
when it comes to this extension of the
government funding, that they actually
get favorable numbers?
They do, but the the rest of the issue
set favors Republicans. From the economy
to law enforcement to immigration,
uh, look, the the the
the field is tilted for Republicans on
the policy front. The one, uh, sort of
lining for Democrats is healthcare, and
this is what they want to highlight in
the shutdown. The odd thing about a
shutdown,
um, and this this shutdown, uh, that
we're looking at right now has a lot of
similarities to me as the 2013 shutdown,
uh, where uh, congressional Republicans,
I was part of a part of the group. This
is why I'm I it it it hurts me to see
what Democrats are doing right now. Um,
we said we wanted uh, President Obama to
repeal his signature healthcare
initiative, Obamacare. Very pop Our
stance was very popular with the
American people, and in shutting down
the government, we got nowhere on the
policy. We got nowhere on furthering uh,
the belief the American people thought
the Republicans were right. I think this
is what we're going to face with
Democratic uh, leaders in the Senate and
in the House. They're going to recognize
this fight is not worth fighting, and in
fact, a shutdown is in fact and
continues to be a very dumb, uh,
political lever here in Washington.
Well, in 2013 when they finally came to
an agreement, there was a little bit of
concessions when it came to the
Affordable Care Act. Could we see
concessions from Republicans
and Democrats this time around to keep
the government open?
Well, I think it's highly unlikely on
the short-term uh,
government funding.
Uh, on the longer-term one, which will
take time to put together, I think you
can see some some modifications. And
there's a lot of wiggle room when you're
funding a
a nearly $2 trillion government. Uh, and
so, I think there is an opportunity
there. But for them to actually for for
congressional Democrats to go into a
shutdown strategy, this is their first
time uh, of trying this. Uh, what
they're going to find is that they this
is not uh, is it does not give them what
they think it will get them. I think
they they're going to have to wait for
for their policy uh, on longer-term
spending bill
Uh, and they they pulled the trigger at
the wrong time.
How serious do you think the OMB is
about when it comes to furloughs that
usually happen during government
shutdowns to actually making those job
cuts permanent?
No, I think I think this is a a plan the
OMB director Russ Vought has been
stewing for for a long long time.
He has he's thought about this and
thought about this and thought about it.
And the White House strategy rests on
OMB. OMB has enormous powers to to carry
out
especially in a shutdown enormous powers
over the executive branch of the
functioning of the executive branch and
Russ Vought the OMB director has a plan
and I think it's going to be a very
devastating one for Democrats and
they're going to rue the day that they
actually gave Russ Vought this enhanced
power. It's going to be It's going to be
fascinating to see
what what happens in the next week into
the shutdown and for the weeks ahead
frankly.
A key question for financial markets as
the shutdown looms is whether or not
we're actually going to get economic
data. We're supposed to get the nonfarm
payrolls report on Friday. If we're in a
shutdown, will we get that report? It's
unlikely. It's unlikely we'll get that
report but different This is also up to
OMB.
This is one of the things on whether or
not it's deemed essential. The funding
streams or it's a complicated set of
laws that OMB has the wide authority to
implement. That that's one that's an
open question frankly.
But also our governmental statistics are
an open question by the markets anyway.
There's a lot of questioning of these
statistics and the validity of them. And
so you know I I think OMB may take the
broader authorities than than in
previous shutdowns.
Former chair of the House Financial
Services Committee Patrick McHenry,
thank you so much for your time and
insight this morning having lived
through a number of shutdowns in the
past. Jonathan, two big takeaways. He
thinks shutdowns are dumb. I think a lot
of Americans would agree with that but
also we might not get that jobs report
on Friday. President Trump would have to
deem those individuals at the Bureau of
Labor Statistics essential nor for that
report to come down the pipe.
>> Amara, let's just acknowledge that fact.
Okay, we might not get payrolls. Apart
from that, is there anything that this
market investors need to pay attention
to? They've been conditioned to ignore
this repeatedly over years and years. Is
it any different this time?
No, not at all. The market is just going
to continuously ignore what's going on
in Washington D.C. This is going to be
mostly purely political. The one thing
the market is going to care about is
whether or not we get the economic data
and that all depends on whether or not
who they deem essential to the
government continuously working and who
basically gets to go home for a few
weeks.
>> Let's hope we do. Amara, thank you.
Amara with the latest down in Washington
D.C. More from Amara later on in the
next hour. We'll catch up with the
former senior US intelligence official
Norman Roule. With the Gaza peace deal
coming into focus, we'll get to that
story in about 5 10 minutes time. But
Amara, for this market, just give me the
data. You deal with the politics. This
market does not want to confront the
mess down in Washington D.C. because
it's seen this mess a million times.
>> So just get some history in here. The
longest shutdown of the US government
was back at the end of 2018 start of
2019. It was 35 days. In 1996 we had one
for 21 days. There was one in 2013
lasting 16 days. What is the threshold
people to care longer than just a few
hours and that could potentially be what
it is. I do think that the prospect of
mass job cuts in the government could
potentially change the scenario and that
I think is what people are looking at
for the possible economic ramification
but that's a stretch and right now the
markets are moving on. I mentioned Max
Kettner of HSBC joins us later just
published. We still see clear signs of
US and global growth reaccelerating in
contrast to downbeat consensus
expectations. I think it's fair to say
that Max Kettner of HSBC is not paying
much attention to the potential for
government shutdown. I would just take
issue with this idea of consensus being
that gloomy. People might
People might feel gloomy but they're
certainly not trading as though that's
the case. We also talks about how
potentially the biggest
aspect that could derail this would be a
surprisingly hawkish Fed and it doesn't
seem like that's in the docket either.
>> Yeah, we're pricing in a lot of earnings
growth for 2026. It's It's hard to call
that downbeat.
>> Exactly. I mean it seems like the
consensus
>> Get Max's view a little bit later. Thank
you.
>> Plus Danny Berger has got your morning
movers. We'll catch up with Danny next.
Alibaba rising on some bullish calls.
That name is up 3.4%.
[Music]
Where did September go?
October starts on Wednesday. This year's
flying by. It's been 6 months since
Liberation Day. Can't believe that.
>> No, I can't and actually it seems like
it's been about five different years and
distinct narratives and I'm just so
excited for the next couple of months.
>> Just absolutely wild. Looking forward to
closing out the year, right? Well yeah,
at the end of the year but also just the
wild ride that we're going to get in the
next three months as well. Q4 just
around the corner. Futures look like
this. On the S&P 500 positive by 0.6 on
the Nasdaq 100 up by 0.7
advancing going into the payrolls report
that we hope we get this coming Friday.
Into that into the bond market we look
like this. Two-year, 10-year, 30-year
bond yields down across the board. We're
down two on twos, down three on 10s. 414
on 10s, 362 on twos and that whole curve
just kind of grinding higher ever since
the Fed met a few Wednesdays ago.
>> It has been led by the front end which I
think is interesting and you still have
this yield curve flattening going on
which is counter to what a lot of people
were expecting. It does seem as though
especially given some of the hawkish
rhetoric out of the Fed but also the
upside surprises at a number of
different data points, people are saying
maybe this Fed's going to be a little
bit more concerned about inflation and I
have to say the idea that the hawks are
coming out swinging and that there are a
number of them signals that maybe
there's going to be more pushback to
just cutting down to 2% like some people
are saying.
>> end is super interesting but the front
end has got interesting too. Rate story
stabilized. Fed speaker is super
divided. Data stabilized too and I think
that's really important about the future
of that Fed debate which is why again I
want to see that data this coming
Friday. I think ISM manufacturing, JOLTS
data, ADP data, jobless claims, all the
data we're likely to get regardless of
government shutdown are going to take on
a disproportionate amount of meaning in
a potential dark zone at least for
official data.
>> It is a week packed with economic data.
If you switch up the board I just want
to finish on this story here in the
commodity market. Crude down by 1.5% on
Brent, on WTI down by 1.7. If you wanted
some comfort in the disinflationary
story that the president of the White
House is searching for, you might get it
from OPEC at the moment. We're reporting
here at Bloomberg they could be boosting
production again in the next month or
so. That's weighing on the commodity
market this morning.
>> Yeah, and it comes after what we saw on
Friday which was a pop. Brent reaching
the highest level since July on concern
that there would be a more hawkish
policy with it comes to Ukraine and
Russia, potentially strikes allowing
strikes after Russian assets, etc. So a
real question here about how much OPEC
is doing the heavy lifting to offset the
geopolitics of the moment. That's the
cross-asset picture so far this Monday
morning. Let's get you some single
names, some stock movers, your morning
movers with Danny Berger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Occidental moving to the
upside this morning more than 1%. The FT
reporting that they're looking at
selling their OxyChem business. It's
their petrochemical business for as much
as $10 billion on the FT reporters there
didn't name the potential buyer but a
bid would be one of the biggest sell-off
of one of their assets and they've been
doing so. They've been winding down a
lot of their assets looking to pay down
debt. So that's the story with
Occidental this morning. Meanwhile, the
defense companies also moving higher. A
story about an hour ago that the
Pentagon has asked defense companies to
double or even quadruple their missile
output in some circumstances. They said
they looked at the current stockpiles of
US weapons and deemed it far too low if
there were to be a conflict with China.
Off the back of that you have Lockheed
Martin up 2.5%, RTX up 2.3%. Of course
there's a question as if they can
actually put that output out as quickly
and where the money would come from to
do so. Finally wrapping things up with
Alibaba. The ADRs also to the upside
this morning 3.4%. A lot of analyst
excitement specifically Morningstar says
fair value for the ADRs is 49% higher
than it currently is just given all the
investment they're putting into AI data
centers. That is a punchy number
considering they've already doubled so
far this year. John.
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Danny in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, President Donald
Trump once again turning to social media
to escalate his long-running feud with
Fed chair Jay Powell posting a cartoon
on Truth Social that shows him
delivering the famous line
"You're fired." I I wonder what you
thought about this over the weekend
because so many people just wanted to
move on from this story and the
President trolling the Fed chair once
again.
>> Well, trolling is the keyword. Do you
take this as mandate? Do you take this
as policy? Do you take this as the path
of travel? Do you take this as just
amping up the pressure? How do you
understand this? What is the political
analysis of a cartoon that says you're
fired? I mean it's this idea of at what
point is this reality? At what point is
this
you know theatrics?
>> So we're kind of blessed in the sense
that we can just follow the markets and
their response and reaction to these
kind of things and don't have to provide
our opinion to any of this stuff.
If you are worried about central bank
independence, the first place you should
look is inflation expectations and there
is very little sign if any that
market-based inflation expectations have
become unmoored, unanchored. You don't
see that so I would say this market at
the moment doesn't really care. This is
the reason why Fed chair Jay Powell has
not been fired and why they have yet to
announce who his successor is going to
be because you can keep raising the
specter of a boogeyman of someone who's
not doing their job right at the same
time that you might be getting data that
isn't perfect or that might be a little
bit lumpy. So it comes with this
interesting moment where it's raising
the pressure to one constituent. The
market's not listening, perfect. You
don't want the market to listen and it
serves a lot of different purposes and
that is how I read this exactly because
ultimately people have noticed, hey
guess what? We haven't gotten another
Fed chair successor nominee. That would
have undermined Chair Powell's
credibility and the narrative. They
haven't done that yet even though they
could have and that I think tells you
everything you need to know.
>> Might be that markets got a sense of
humor. I don't know. If you told me 12
months ago that this would be something
that happened over the weekend and we'd
wake up Monday morning with bond yields
lower, stocks higher by half of 1% just
shrug it off and ignore it. Yeah. I'd be
surprised by that 12 months ago. I'm not
surprised now. Yeah, well I don't think
the bond traders looking that big like,
"Haha, that's a knee slapper." But I do
think that people are saying, "We can't
really take signal from this. This is
just reiterating the rhetoric we've
heard before."
>> That's the latest on the Federal
Reserve. I wanted to turn to this as
well, the latest for New York politics.
New York City Mayor Eric Adams has
dropped his reelection bid. Adams citing
low polls and a finance dispute fueling
speculation he's clearing the path for
Andrew Cuomo to challenge frontrunner
Zohran Mamdani. Our swear China chief Xi
Jinping is reportedly pushing for a
major shift in US policy on Taiwan.
According to the Wall Street Journal,
Beijing is pressuring the White House to
formally declare it opposes Taiwan
independence, a move that would be a
significant diplomatic win for China.
This is one of the biggest stories that
are under the radar that I think that
really is going on right now. The idea
that if this is a more transactional
United States, could there be a
geopolitical compromise, which is what
Xi Jinping ultimately wants, which is to
bring Taiwan back under its fold and the
US maybe pulling back from the South
China Sea, some of the military
reserves, etc. That's something that a
lot of people are watching and
wondering, is that up for grabs in this
sort of grand detente between these two
leaders?
>> Pair this with a Huawei headline that we
got a little bit earlier this morning
and we to double the highest end AI chip
output by 2026. I think to some extent
these stories are connected.
>> The idea of getting leverage and saying
we can do do detach from you or we can
use your tech and be interdependent and
help support you as long as you allow us
to really connect with Taiwan more
deeply. And this I think is what a lot
of people are watching. I wonder how
much is this going to split the
Republican party though because this
isn't necessarily a Republican
Democratic issue. This is something that
has been unified bipartisan kind of
feeling about Taiwan's independence for
a long time.
>> That's the latest from the Wall Street
Journal. Let's stick with geopolitics.
President Trump seeming confident that
there will be a breakthrough in Gaza
ceasefire negotiations as he prepares
for a meeting with Israeli President
Benjamin Netanyahu at the White House.
It's looking like we have a deal on
Gaza.
And we'll we'll let you know. I think
it's a deal that will get the hostages
back. It's going to be a deal that will
end the war.
Uh it's going to be a deal with it's
going to be peace.
Joining us now a very own Bloomberg's
Anne Marie is back in Washington D.C.
with a special guest. Anne Marie.
Hey John, good morning. Ahead of that
meeting today, lunch and then a press
conference between Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu and President Donald
Trump, we're joined by Norman Roule,
former senior US intelligence official.
Norman, thank you so much for joining us
this morning. Ahead of this meeting, the
president is sounding very confident. He
thinks there could be some sort of
breakthrough when it comes to Gaza. Of
course, we have been here so many times
before. What makes this time different?
Good morning. Well, the president, his
team and even some of his Israeli
Israelis have voiced serious optimism in
public on these statements. This deal
also has general support of the Arab
states and even some senior Israeli
opposition leaders.
However, Hamas has not yet seen the
proposal and will resist disarmament and
loss of power. The proposal also
includes several points that cross very
real red lines that could collapse the
Netanyahu government. So, the deal
should not yet be considered certain as
Israel and Palestinians will attempt to
modify provisions that touch issues they
oppose and there will be some hard
bargaining today at the White House.
The president's team proposed this plan
last week on the sidelines of the UN
General Assembly to a number of Arab
leaders. Do you get a sense that the
Arab world is on board with this
20-point plan?
In general, yes. This deal has been
coordinated
with the Arabs and and it it addresses
many of the points the Arabs have been
seeking for many months. It provides for
withdrawal of the Israeli forces. It
provides for an end to the violence. It
provides for humanitarian support for
the Palestinian people. And although it
doesn't give a direct path to
Palestinian statehood, it provides a
center of gravity for the Palestinians
to begin some form of of an authority
that would allow them to rule themselves
and it also provides for the eradication
of Hamas, which Arab states all support.
How has Israel's strike on Doha changed
the dynamics going into this bilateral
meeting for Benjamin Netanyahu and the
President of the United States?
Well, the Israeli strike was obviously
staunchly opposed
by the Arab states. It infuriated the
Arab states. It
made Israel appear as a
a source of problems more than a source
of solutions in the region and it put
those members of the era Abraham Accords
in a very difficult position. Uh I think
that just put another log in the fire of
of the ongoing political
pressure that the Arab states had
already exerted on Europe to uh uh
produce a greater sense of political
support for recognition of the
Palestinian state itself in the at the
UN. Where there were more than a dozen
states that signed on to that. So, that
initiative combined with the ongoing
violence in Gaza combined with the many
months of quiet diplomacy by
Steve Witcoff, Jared Kushner and Tony
Blair all came together
in
sort of three trains coming into the
station to produce
this week's diplomacy in what at the
White House.
Norm, elsewhere in the region, I'd love
to get your take on a country you know a
tremendous amount about and this is
Iran. And just yesterday we saw
sanctions on Iran given the snapback at
the UN General Assembly. What kind of
penalties is Tehran going to be seeing
with this snapback action?
The most significant aspect of these
penalties is that they are UN sanctions,
which means in the past many countries,
Russia and China for example, could
ignore US sanctions saying that they
were extraterritorial and therefore
sanctions they could ignore. But these
are now UN UN designations so that in
essence Russia and China will be
ignoring UN sanctions. Now, they will
ignore those sanctions on oil sales, but
this makes it difficult for other
countries to participate in Russian,
Chinese, Venezuelan
sanctions busting and it makes it much
easier for the United States and our
partners to clamp down on Iranian
sanctions evasion. Already we've seen
the Iranian rial
uh
increase in its or other collapse in its
value and we're going to see some
serious economic pressures build in Iran
itself in coming months. This will be a
very serious economic challenge for an
already pressured Iranian regime.
Will these sanctions push Iran to the
negotiating table with the United
States?
Not in the near term. Iran will need to
demonstrate defiance. It will need to
demonstrate some sense of
its ability to move through these
sanctions, but this is a serious
challenge for government that has
already proven to be politically
bankrupt facing multiple economic
issues for which it has no policy
solutions. It's trying to survive the
transition to post-revolutionary
leadership. Um and it's got no no no
serious
options sitting in front of it and now
it faces
the loss of some of its few economic
tools. So, for Iran itself, it's going
to be in a very difficult
position. So, coming weeks, months,
we'll see how these sanctions play out.
You're going to see rising costs. You're
going to see shipping costs increase.
You're going to see Iran having
difficulty with some of its exports, its
imports. Its very limited foreign
investment will will diminish even
further and again its rial will continue
to decline in value.
Norm, thank you so much for your time
this morning. Norman Roule of CSIS and
of course a former US intelligence
official. John, there's a ton of moving
parts right now in the Middle East. We
just ended there on Iran and potentially
what the second-hand nature is going to
be from the snapback of those sanctions
on European countries on Iran. But
heading into this meeting this
afternoon, this is going to be a crucial
one for the region between Benjamin
Netanyahu and the President of the
United States on the heels of the US
talking to the entire Arab world at the
UN last week about this 21-point plan to
try to bring an end to the fighting and
get some sort of ceasefire agreement and
path forward for Gaza. Anne Marie,
appreciate the update. Anne Marie down
in Washington D.C. More from AM H in
about 30 minutes time. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg Brief. Here's
Shahara. Hi Shahara. Hi John.
UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer has
framed his political survival as his
country's best hope of defeating
populism. Starmer is trying to regain
the faith of Britain's electorate amid
complaints his government is not taking
radical enough action on concerns such
as cost of living and migration. In
interview with the BBC, Starmer drew
political drew political battle lines
with Nigel Farage's Reform UK.
Meanwhile, Moldova's ruling pro-European
party is on track to win reelection
keeping the country on the path to EU
membership, President Maia Sandu's
Action and Solidarity Party received a
majority of the votes. Once certified,
the results will be a major blow to
Russia, which has allegedly spent
millions to install pro-Moscow forces in
the country.
And Huawei is preparing to ramp up
production of its most advanced AI chips
over the next year. The Chinese company
plans to make that make about 600,000 of
its marquee 910C Ascent chips next year.
That's about double this year's level.
Huawei is also working on a chip
powerful enough to train AI algorithms,
not just operate them, in order to
compete with Nvidia. That's a Bloomberg
brief, John. Johanna, thank you.
Appreciate it. Up next on the program,
rate cuts on track.
Households do not like the inflation.
So, I think it's incumbent on the
Federal Reserve to make sure inflation
stays low. This leaves everything on
track
to have further rate cuts during the
next two meetings. Jim Bianco of Bianco
Research joins us next.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning. A
welcome to the program. Under Savannah's
this morning, rate cuts on track.
Households do not like the inflation.
So, I think it's incumbent on the
Federal Reserve to make sure inflation
stays low and stable. This leaves
everything on track
to
have further rate cuts during the next
two meetings of the FOMC. I do think
the economy will be in pretty good shape
for the rest of this year and into 2026.
So, here's the latest this morning.
Traders are looking ahead to payrolls
data due out on Friday after
stronger-than-expected economic data.
Jim Bianco of Bianco Research writing
the Fed should not continue to cut
rates. The economy is doing much better
than the consensus. Jim joins us now for
more. Jim, welcome to the program, sir.
I want your perspective first on the
recent Fed debate. The division that
we're seeing from the Fed speak of the
last week or so. Where do you land on
things, Jim?
I think some of that is political. I
think some of the Federal Reserve
officials are running to try and replace
J. Powell. And I might respectfully say
that the quote you had from
Jim Bullard is in that camp, too, cuz it
was very inconsistent what he said. And
I think some of it is genuine that there
is some that are looking at the economy
kind of like I do. And that is is that
it's doing okay, if not better. The
Atlanta Fed GDP number is now nearly 4%.
It's higher than every single estimate
on Wall Street right now. And the
inflation data is staying sticky, and
the goods part of data, which would be
tariffs, is really starting to show
signs that it's moving higher. So, for
those that say, "Where's the tariff
inflation?" It's right there. It's
coming. It's it's underway in the CPI
goods category. Jim, how credible do you
think this pursuit of 2% is? It's
something that dominated our
conversation on decision day. Is this
credible?
It's got a problem. And the reason it's
got a problem is if you look at the
inflation expectations data.
I'm talking about like the inflation
swaps or the CPI
break-even rates or the TIPS, excuse me,
break-even rates. They're all above 2
and 1/2% out till 2030. I know, you
know, one of the best questions I heard
during the press conference was from
Mike McKee, where he pointed out that
the Fed said, "We'll be at our target in
two years." And he pointed out, "The
last 11 years you've said you'll be at
your target in two years, and you've yet
to be at your target in two years for 11
straight years, and now you're going to
try for a 12th year." And the market is
saying, "You're not going to meet your
target for five more years." Because out
to 2030, it's still got, you know,
elevated inflation, not runaway, but
definitely not getting anywhere near 2%,
and the Fed needs to address that. And
they're really not at this point. At the
same time, Jim, can't you say that
tacitly if they're accepting 2.4%, which
is currently what break-even rates are
pointing out for the next 10 years, is
the likely inflation rate? If that is
the inflation rate, isn't this market
and isn't this Fed saying, "That's fine,
as long as we don't torpedo the labor
market, as long as we keep the economy
chugging, where's the problem?"
The problem comes in where's the neutral
rate. If you're going to accept 2 and
1/2% or so as the inflation rate with
R-star, that's 3 and 1/2%. If you're
going to
that would be a 1% premium above that.
If you're going to accept 2 and 1/2% of
inflation, maybe R-star should be a
little bit bigger. In other words,
you're no longer moderately
you're easy in the market. You're
probably at neutral, and if you cut one
or two more times this year, you're
going to be too easy in the market, and
you're going to
risk fostering more inflation. So, it
really comes down to do you want to cut
rates two more times? If you do, then
you shouldn't be tacitly accepting 2 and
1/2% as the inflation rate long-term
inflation rate, because you should be
done cutting rates then at this point.
>> Do you get comfort, Jim, from the fact
that after the Fed cut rates, you aren't
seeing a steepening of the yield curve?
You aren't seeing a runaway at the long
end of the yield curve like what we saw
last year that people are seeing there
as justification economically for the
Fed to be more aggressive.
Yeah, it at least at this point, but I I
fear that we're in a holding pattern
waiting for more data, and I also fear
we're not going to get that data because
we're going to have a government
shutdown on Wednesday at midnight. And
I'm talking about like the payroll
report on Friday and next week the CPI
report. Remember that the last
government shutdown under Trump in
2018-2019 lasted 35 days. And the Fed is
effectively going to go into the October
29th meeting with no more government
data, which is what they rely on. J.
Powell called it the gold standard. Then
they have today, and they'll just assume
that it's everything is as they
understand it today, and they'll cut
rates. And what I'm afraid of is when we
get that data, whenever we get that
data, it's going to show a a meaningful
uptick in the economy. Jim, I want to
build on that. We've been talking about
this reacceleration now for a while.
Markets priced for it into '26. Lisa
mentioned Neil Dutta early this morning.
This is what he said on the jobs market.
If firms expect growth to perk up, it's
curious they haven't ramped up hiring
and hours already, Jim. What do you say
back to that?
You know, I think the issue with the
labor market is really the break-even
rate right now. We need to start ask the
other side of the question, which nobody
wants to touch. Okay, we've created
29,000 jobs over the last 3 months. How
many should we be creating? And J.
Powell answered that towards the end of
his press conference. He said maybe zero
to 50,000. Midpoint of that's 25,000.
We've created 29,000. I understand this
is a number that we're not used to. To
say 29,000 jobs over 3 months is just
fine, that's all we need in this
economy. But we've got the lowest
population growth in almost 100 years
because of the closing of the border and
increased deportations. And if that's
the case, if you have no population
growth, you don't need to create that
many jobs. So, really this is the crux
of the labor market issue. It's not how
many manufacturing jobs versus service
jobs versus healthcare jobs that did we
create last month. The fundamental
question is how many do we need? And the
answer might be not that many given low
population growth. Jim, thoughtful
stuff. As always, Jim Bianco of Bianco
Research. We've heard this a few times.
You've had a step down in payrolls
growth. You haven't had a step up in
labor market slack. And the second one,
the latter, it's really important when
it comes to interest rates. What's
curious about Chairman Powell is he was
focused on that.
And then he wasn't. Yeah, I know where
you're going with this. The idea that
suddenly it was it first it was the
unemployment rate that was the most
important because of this concern, and
now it's the headline number as there is
this concern about more weakness. The
kink in the ointment or the fly in the
ointment here to me is early market
entrants. College graduates. Their
inability to get a job. The sense that
people have where they're not
necessarily quitting as frequently, and
they're not necessarily getting as big
raises when they get to another job.
Those are the signs that there is
something going on maybe is more than
just something that's healthy.
>> Which obviously has spooked this Federal
Reserve. That it's not just a supply
story. It's both. Right. And the
concerned by one more than the other. Up
next on the program, Max Kettner of
HSBC, Henrietta Treyz of Vedder
Partners, and we'll catch up with the
PIMCO CEO, Manny Roman. That
conversation in the next hour.
[Music]
This is a completely unique environment.
>> We're entering act two of tariffs.
>> There's a lot of elements here that can
serve as tailwinds to the consumer. But
once all that evaporates, we have to
wonder where we'll be.
>> The consumer feels like they are running
out of steam.
>> We think actually you're going to be
more able to see where the economy
stands in 6 months or so.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now,
and your scores look like this. Snapping
a 3-day losing streak on Friday with
some positive follow-through. Up again
this morning by 0.6% on the S&P,
likewise on the Nasdaq. A rally in the
bond market, 2-year, 10-year, 30-year
bond yields down across the board. We're
lower by three basis points on 10s.
We're down two on twos. Looking ahead to
a week full of economic data, and
hopefully we climax on Friday with the
payrolls report.
>> In the meantime, people are going to be
putting in increasing pressure,
increasing emphasis on ADP report, on
the ISM manufacturing, on the jolts, the
job openings data. All of the other
peripheral information that we can get,
because ultimately it is such a wild
card about whether we will get that data
on Friday. Just to give you this
perspective, there is now into
prediction markets a three and four
chance predicted that the market will
shut down and that we probably will not
get that labor market report on Friday.
So, you know, maybe I'll take it off.
>> I hope we get the ISM's.
I hope we get the ISM's. Of course we
will. And that will show, and this is
what I hope for, it's going to show the
re-acceleration the market's priced for.
The jobs market is its own beast right
now. We've talked about that supply side
story versus demand side story, don't
know. Okay, continue having that debate.
If you believe in this re-acceleration
story, you've got to hope to see that in
the ISM's this week. I think that's
really important for both manufacturing
and for services, too. And if you if you
take that logic, and I think it is the
right way to look at it, then what
happens if it's a disappointment? If you
do believe that there's going to be more
volatility in the markets around some of
these peripheral data points, is bad I'm
sorry, Stuart Kaiser. Is bad news bad
news? If you get some sort of a sign of
weakening or a lack of re-acceleration
in manufacturing, do you get some of the
rows off the bloom of all of the people
who are betting on a re-acceleration and
the likes of Goldman Sachs or Brian
Belsky at or other other analysts
have come out and upgraded their
forecast for stocks. Is that part of the
story that they need to see come
through? In the long run, good news is
just good news. Eric Robertson of
Standard Chartered has said this over
the weekend, we may have already seen
the trough in the US economic data.
That's what the market's priced for.
That's what we need to see now. And I
hope we see that in the ISM when we get
it later this week. Although, here's the
rub. And this is a bit of an issue. This
is all predicated on the Fed continuing
to ease policy rates. If the Fed gets
justification not to ease policy rates
because of the re-acceleration that's in
the data now, does that stymie some of
the bullish calls that really see a lift
from some of the Fed accommodation?
>> possibly, of course, yes. If you look at
small caps and they've rallied almost
exclusively on the rate story, there
will be pockets of this market that
won't like that. What would concern me
is what's stopping the Federal Reserve.
Is the Federal Reserve constrained by
the inflation story or just happy with
the growth story? If they're happy with
the growth story, that's a good story
for risk, it always is over the long
term. If they're constrained by the
inflation story, we've entered a new
regime, that's problematic. And the risk
of seeing a repeat of what happened last
time when they had to really take a step
in and do something about inflation and
sacrifice things in the labor market. I
hope we don't get there, there's a lot
of hope coming out of my mouth this
morning. I hope that's not what we see.
Well, I think everyone pretty much
agrees with you who's long this market
because as our next guest talks about,
the one potential scenario that could
stymie the rally and the incredible
enthusiasm that we hear around the every
corner in Wall Street is a suddenly
hawkish Federal Reserve exactly because
of some sort of inflationary threat.
>> He's coming up next. Max Kettner of HSBC
is going to join us as Wall Street looks
to recover from last week's losses.
Plus, Henrietta Treyz of Vedder Partners
as the government shutdown standoff
deepens and the PIMCO CEO, Manny Roman,
on financing the AI infrastructure boom.
We begin this hour with stocks inching
higher as investors continue to navigate
the AI boom. Max Kettner of HSBC saying
things are looking up, writing the
broad-based asset price inflation is
continuing full throttle and we think
there's more to come. Max joins us now
for more. Max, good morning. Good
morning. We were talking about your note
you published earlier this morning, so I
think we should probably start there.
So, here's the line. We still see clear
signs of US and global growth
re-accelerating in contrast to downbeat
consensus expectations. Lisa, straight
away, bang. What's downbeat about
consensus expectations into next year?
Look, I I think when we look at both
earnings actually, earnings expectations
and and top-down GDP expectations, they
are still pretty, you know, pretty
downbeat. Certainly not where GDP now
is, where all the high-frequency data
are, but both top-down and bottom-up. If
you look at bottom-up, actually, you
know, when we strip out tech, earnings
expectations Q3 versus Q2 or two are
pretty much flat. So, we're going into
Q3 earning season in a couple of weeks
where, you know, for most sectors,
actually consensus is saying earnings
are either going to be flat or down
quarter over quarter sequentially. You
know, in in a quarter where probably
growth has been really, really robust
from a top-down perspective. That
doesn't make sense. If you look at Q4,
even GDP, what we are seeing is it's
barely 1% quarter over quarter
annualized growth expected. Again, what
we are not only seeing at the headline
number, that 1%, which is a quarter
percent annualized and annualized, but
when we look at
the contributions to that, consensus are
still saying there won't be any comeback
of investment. And that doesn't make
sense to me. You can't say, we've got a
little bit less political uncertainty,
we kind of know what how to deal with
this environment now. We've got the big
beautiful bill coming through. We've got
wealth gains coming through. We've
obviously got, you know, these AI capex
story coming through. But at the same
time, consensus is saying, nope. All
this tariff story, it's going to
continue weighing on on investment in
particular. And that's really big upside
surprise potential.
>> the reason why both John and I were a
little bit confused by this idea of
consensus is because in the past couple
of days, Brian Belsky saying 7,000 for
next year not necessarily high enough.
Christian Mueller Glissmann over at
Goldman Sachs upgrading their forecast.
And Goldman Sachs keeps upgrading to the
markets repeatedly. John Stoltzfus, the
biggest bull on Wall Street. You see
others just coming out of the woodwork
talking about 7,700 on the the S&P for
next year. How can you say that's a
bearish outlook or not bullish enough?
Yeah, look, actually, what we are seeing
now, that sort of streak of upgrades,
that's the most bullish thing that you
can imagine. Because
we run a series called consensus GDP
forecast diffusion index, where we
actually look at the data that you guys
produce. So, all those consensus
expectations around GDP. Once that
shoots higher, so once you really see
upgrades across the board for the major
global economies, so for, you know, the
likes of the US, Canada, China, Eurozone
and so on,
that is really, really bullish. Right?
Particularly for for cyclicality,
particularly not only for adding for
equities, and not just, okay, it's a
monetary driven story, it's probably
tech outperforming, but really for
cyclicals to outperform. Now, on the
other hand, let's not just focus on the
expectations and on people upgrading
their, you know, their year ahead
forecast, but also about the market
action. When we look at the market
action year to date and you look within
the S&P, cyclicals are up pretty much
the same as defensives. So, it's not
like cyclicals are up 20% and defensives
are like five. And you're like, wow,
this is all baked into price action
already. No, both are up give or take
9%. So, it's not like actually price
action is telling us, wow, there's so
much hope into cyclicals baked in. Not
to be a negative Nelly, but you could
argue Hold on a second. Not always. I'm
just contrarian Courtney. Look at us,
we're looking forward. We're talking
Please, bear with me. Honestly, you
could say if things were looking so
good, why is the Fed cutting rates? Um,
that makes it even more bullish, if
we're honest. Well, wait, sure, but why
should they cut rates? They shouldn't. I
mean, don't don't don't ask a don't ask
a German why they should cut rates,
right? The German will always say they
shouldn't be cutting rates. No, I mean,
look, I guess the point is, to bring it
back to slightly more, you know, serious
topics.
If we If we look at
what the Fed can do, can they cut
another one or two times? Sure, fine.
Should they necessarily with uber uber
loose and and easy financial conditions?
Probably not, you know, with three-ish
inflation. Should they really be cutting
a lot? Probably not. But at the same
time, what we undeniably have is we have
weakness in the economy. It's very
different, you know, the economy is on
two very different paths. Let's be
honest. If we weren't market people, if
we were people working in the labor
department, we'd be talking about the
the economy very, very differently.
There is, you know, there is
there is absolute, absolute strains on
the weaker part of the economy. We're
talking about the Russell 2000, John.
You were you were talking about the
Russell 2000. Let's go one step down one
step down. Let's go to the the smallest
caps that are you know, that aren't
actually listed. There is very clear
strain, they can't get funding. You
know, you look at credit card
delinquencies, auto loan delinquencies.
Look at real wage growth, high the the
highest wage growth percentiles versus
the lowest ones. The lowest ones are
already going to around 0% real wage
growth. Tariffs, of course, are eating
into the lower end consumer goods, into,
you know, things like food and beverages
that already have outstripped
cumulatively inflation since COVID. Now
you add on tariffs, it's a clear strain
on the weaker part of the economy and
they need the rate cuts. What that, of
course, for us means, it's even better
for asset price inflation. Because
you've got a re-accelerating economy and
now you throw on rate cuts, which
normally never happens. That story you
described doesn't make you bearish, in
fact, it makes you incrementally more
bullish because they're going to have to
respond to it. What would make you
bearish is what Lisa is trying to ask
you.
>> Yeah, I think look,
the it is very clear anything around,
let's say, Supreme Court or government
shutdown, that's like, yeah, can we get
like one or two or three percent down?
Sure, right? Handful of percent down.
But at the end of the day, this is just
buy the dip opportunities. The the
reality is, if we get a return to 2022
where the where the Fed says, oh
we are, you know, we are very wrong.
This is like 2022, this is transitory.
If we say, oh, you know what, this is
not just 3%, this is entrenched 3% and
3% seems to be the low now and now we're
re-accelerating even inflation. We're
not even done cutting, we're not even,
you know, we're not even stopping. We're
actually the next move is a hike.
Once we get that, that puts a stop to
it. How far are we away from that?
Minimum two quarters. You know, I mean,
I had last week I still had
conversations about, oh, they're going
to do 50 in October.
You know? We're minimum two quarters
away from that because let's let's
remember, we have had this
re-acceleration in the data that, you
know, not a lot of people were talking
about a month and a half, two months
ago. You know, now it's sort of creeping
into
people really and saying, hey look,
yeah, the US seems to be doing better
from an aggregate growth perspective,
but what we really need for a hawkish
for a proper hawkish shift is actually a
re-acceleration in the labor market. And
given that supply story, given that
really low break even number, it's
almost impossible to get that in the
next couple of months. Right? So, that
that makes it it sounds intuitively
completely wrong, but it's the best of
both worlds. You get a sort of weak-ish
labor market, but you've got
re-accelerating
activity data, which means good
earnings, but sort of sluggish consensus
expectations, low bar to beat, but at
the same time rate cuts into a
re-acceleration. Which, Lisa, to your
point, is that a policy mistake? I think
so, but of course, you know, that's
probably a story we're going to play in
2026, not the next 6 months. Max Smart,
good to see you. Thank you, sir. That's
the bull case this morning from Max
Kettner of HSBC and contrarian Courtney.
Came along for the conversation.
I shouldn't have said that. That guy
Where did that come from? I don't know.
It was just, you know, one of those
things. Happy Monday. Look, you know,
what what Max is talking about is really
important. It's this idea of not what
the Fed should do, it's what they will
do. I just wonder, are rate cuts the
most efficient way of targeting the
K-shaped economy? Is that the best way
to help the lower-income sphere of
earners in the United States of America,
frankly, around the world? Or is that
just inflating the asset bubble and
creating an even bigger divide? And
ultimately, is that going to be the
policy mistake that we come back to?
>> I think Max is saying it's the latter
and he's going along for the ride. I
think a lot of people are. Basically.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yohara with
more. Hi, Yohara. Hi, John. President
Donald Trump said the government is
likely to shut down unless Democrats
back down from their demands. Senate
Minority Leader Chuck Schumer says a
stopgap has to include an extension of
healthcare subsidies. The top four
congressional leaders will meet with the
president today at the White House a day
before funding is set to run out.
Meanwhile, at least four people were
killed and several others injured at a
Michigan Latter-day Saints church on
Sunday. A gunman rammed a truck into the
building packed with worshipers, opened
fire, and deliberately set the church
ablaze. The suspect was killed after
officers engaged in gunfire with him at
the church parking lot.
And New York City Mayor Eric Adams has
ended his re-election bid. The
announcement follows reports that Adams
was entertaining potential job offers
from the Trump administration and the
private sector. That's in exchange for
bowing out of the race to allow former
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo to
challenge Democratic nominee Suraj
Mondani. Carlos Leiwah is also still in
the race. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John. Yohara, thank you. Uh next on the
program, finding common ground.
We want to find bipartisan common ground
to find a spending agreement that avoids
a government shutdown.
>> You don't hold the people hostage for
their services to allow yourself
political cover, and that's what Chuck
Schumer and Hakeem Jeffries are doing
right now. Up next on the program,
Henriette Treyz of Veda Partners with
Anne Marie down in Washington, D.C. and
a sprinkle of guess who?
Contrarian Courtney for the next 2
hours.
Come on.
>> You think I'm forgetting that anytime
soon? Contrarian Courtney, what on earth
was that? What was that?
>> Well, it was just, you know, I'm not a
negative Nelly. The contrarian, what
what name would you put?
>> All right, yeah. Courtney. I wasn't
coming up with anything. Thanks for this
morning.
It's a reminder.
[Music]
A big week coming up packed with
economic data. We're hoping to get the
payrolls report on Friday. If you don't
get that, we'll get the private market
indicators, the likes of ADP on
Wednesday. Look out for the ISM's, the
PMI's. That's where the focus is going
to be for market participants.
>> Yeah, ultimately, you use what you get.
If you aren't ultimately have a Fed that
is data-dependent, well, what do you do
if you don't get data? You look at other
data, the tertiary data that's going to
take on increased import. Make ADP great
again. That's going to be this week.
>> That's what's been happening, hasn't it,
over the past few months?
>> It has. It's been a disproportionate
response. I just wonder how volatile
markets will be in response to some of
these data points that often are viewed
as not consistent necessarily with the
labor market report. Particularly given
the divide we've had over the Federal
Reserve more recently. The score so far
this morning pretty good, up again
following Friday's gains, up this Monday
by 0.5% on the S&P, on the Nasdaq by
0.6. Under Savannah's this morning,
finding common ground.
We want to find bipartisan common ground
to find a spending agreement that avoids
a government shutdown and actually meets
the needs of the American people in
terms of their health, their safety, and
their economic well-being.
>> It's fine to have partisan debates and
squabbles, but you don't hold the people
hostage for their services to allow
yourself political cover, and that's
what Chuck Schumer and Hakeem Jeffries
are doing right now. So, here's the
latest this morning, congressional
leadership from both sides of the aisle
meeting with President Donald Trump
today in an effort to avoid a government
shutdown and we're joined by Savannah
from Washington with a special guest,
Anne Marie.
Hey, John, good morning. Well, ahead of
that meeting with the president, it
doesn't seem like either side,
Republicans or Democrats in Congress,
are prepared to blink. And we're now
joined by Henriette Treyz of Veda
Partners, who has a 70% chance that the
government will shut down tomorrow at
midnight. Henriette, my first question's
got to be, why not is it is it not 100%
given the fact that House Republicans
aren't even coming back to Washington?
Yeah, I speak with staff on the hill all
day long, and they have been at 90% for
quite some time now. I guess my
reticence is just that we are still many
hours away from an actual shutdown, and
when it gets to this high media
attention, high intensity dynamic, you
don't get a resolution until the 11th
hour. There are a couple of ways to get
off-ramps here. Um my odds of 70% are
very high for me, uh about on par with
the poly market odds that we've gotten
now uh since this meeting of the big
five, I guess, was announced for later
on today. So, we'll see how it goes.
There's just a long way off is basically
my point and why I'm at 70% odds.
What off-ramps are you looking at that
could be a potential in the final hours?
I want a short-term stopgap. I want like
3, 5, 7 days, nothing major. The bottom
line is that there is a lot of very
serious red meat that you can throw at
both sides. The farmers need a bailout,
for example, as China stops buying soy
from the United States. The Democrats
want ACA subsidies. That's a huge boon
to 22 million individuals across the
country. We want aid to Ukraine. Uh
there's a number of pieces that are
problematic from the market perspective,
suspending BLS data. A lot of chips to
play here, and there are cards for both
sides to deal.
On the BLS data, even if we get a
shutdown, do you think we will get
Friday's jobs report?
I'm optimistic that we'll get Friday's
report because basically the president
is going to have to decide that he just
doesn't want to turn the internet on
that day in order to avoid it. And I
think the market's going to respond
really negatively to that. In meetings
across New York with investors last
week, this came up in every single
conversation. We've already had to deal
with the firing of the BLS commissioner
earlier this summer, and you know, we're
dealing with fiscal dominance on the Fed
side, and even at the Supreme Court, the
market's going to react here. And given
the timing, where we can collect data
all the way through
uh the 30th of September until midnight,
and then the jobs report is just 48
hours away, that that should be pretty
much finalized. All the commissioner
really has to do is plus send. Um we
should get skeptical about reports
coming 3, 4, 5 weeks later, maybe even,
you know, 5 days later if you want to
get to it. But at this point, refusing
to release the BLS data is going to be a
problem for the markets, and I think
that cooler heads will hopefully prevail
on that one.
Okay, so you think we get Friday's
report, but looking forward, it's a
little bit more murky depending on how
long the shutdown could be. In Trump's
first term, we saw a 35-day shutdown. Do
you think we could have seen something
as elongated as that?
I that's not current conventional wisdom
amongst staff. I'd point to a dynamic on
the hill, which is that of the 750,000
employees that are going to be
furloughed in this shutdown event, a lot
of them get paid on every other Friday.
And so that in this case is October
10th, and that points to a relatively
short 10, 11, 12, 13-day shutdown, where
staff can then get back paid as late as
Monday. You know, something like that.
So, that every other Friday dynamic is
just a little inside baseball tidbit to
keep in mind if you're an investor
watching how long this could shut down.
Their staff starts to hurt and feel it
by the 10th.
Who do you think is going to get the
political blowback when it comes to a
government shutdown, Republicans or
Democrats?
Um well, polling suggests that
Republicans are going to fault
Democrats, and Democrats are going to
fault Republicans. The reality of the
situation is that it's hard for
Republicans to message that it's somehow
not their fault given that they control
the White House, the House, and the
Senate. Americans are used to
Republicans being the driving force
behind a shutdown. So, in 2018 and 19,
it was President Trump advocating for a
border wall. Um before that, it was Ted
Cruz, if I'm not mistaken, on the Senate
side. So, this is a situation where
Democrats usually are not in this
position. They're the always the ones
that fold like a lawn chair, um which I
know we've talked about in years past.
This is a dynamic that's a little bit
fresh, and they're fighting over ACA
subsidies, which is an old saw for them.
They feel like they've got the American
public understanding that they're the
more trusted party on healthcare. When I
talk to staff, there's some reticence
about moving it to a tariff discussion,
which polls very well for them and very
poorly for the president, but they're
really sticking to healthcare. Um I
think it's bad look for everybody,
personally.
Speaking of tariffs, you mentioned
China. China's not booked a single
soybean cargo. How quickly could we see
this Congress actually give a bailout to
farmers?
I mean, they could put it in the CR
right now. This is exactly the
narrative. If you're from Nebraska,
Illinois, any of the any of the farming
states, uh if you're Chuck Grassley, you
you've seen that he's furious over the
weekend because Secretary Vilsack is
planning a $20 billion bailout for
Argentina, who simultaneously is getting
all the soy purchases from China and
stealing our market share. That's
permanent spending loss. You know, if
you look at soy data, it's really
fascinating in the president's first
term they were selling over 14 billion
bushels of billion dollars worth of
bushels of soy to China every year. Now
we're already down to 12 and given the
extent of this trade war we're now
selling zero to China. So the trajectory
under Trump for farmers has been
straight down and now it's in bankruptcy
territory. So there's a lot of impetus
for Republican lawmakers on the house
and senate side to insert a bailout for
farmers in this CR as they are going to
go bankrupt with their soy, you know,
just rotting on the vine right now.
So you're saying they could do it as
soon as this CR? Will they? Will the
Democrats also sign up for that?
I I think there's enough opportunity for
give and take on both sides. In one case
you avoid a government shutdown which is
I think going to disproportionately hurt
Democrats this time around. Russ Vought
at OMB is making it really clear that he
wants to have this be as much blue state
targeted as possible. Plus you want the
health care subsidies. Plus you want
additional potential assistance to
Ukraine. Plus you want a farmers
bailout. There's a lot to go around here
and I like that. That's usually how you
can get a resolution. This could become,
you know, maybe not by Wednesday but
shortly thereafter if they get a little
bit of a stopgap, a much bigger deal.
Henrietta, thank you so much for your
time this morning. That's of course
Henrietta Treyz of Veda Partners.
Jonathan She thinks there's potential
for an off-ramp before midnight tomorrow
and most importantly for financial
markets, she thinks we get the jobs
report on Friday. Anne Marie, fingers
crossed. Hopefully we will this coming
Friday. Anne Marie, thank you. Anne
Marie bringing up the right story there,
soybeans. This relationship between
China and America over that one issue is
problematic. They've been leaning on
Brazil for a long time to build up a
more reliable source of soybeans and now
we've got a domestic problem in the US
that the government arguably needs to
address. And part of the way that
they're going to address this
potentially is to take money that
they're getting from the tariffs and
giving
subsidies to soy farmers. Look, this is
a real question of which constituents
are going to get hit hardest from which
parts of this dispersion between the US
and China as well as some of the tariff
revenues. How does this administration
deal with it? How much pushback do you
get from certain Republican Congress
members in response to select policies?
This is where I'm watching to understand
what carve-outs are really asked for or
what subsidies are requested.
>> Unfortunately, this has been a strategy
of the Chinese for quite a while now to
put some heat on the Republican states
to try and put some heat on the
administration led by President Trump.
We'll see if we get changes on that
issue. Coming up on the program, we'll
catch up with the PIMCO CEO, Manny
Roman, on financing the AI
infrastructure boom and a whole lot
more. Plus Danny has your morning
movers, Carnival shares higher ahead of
their latest earnings report. That stock
is up by 1.6%. From New York City this
morning, good morning to you all. Equity
futures positive by 0.5% in the bond
market, a rally. Yields down on a
10-year maturity by three basis points.
Your yield this morning, 415.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning,
good morning. Equity futures on the S&P
500 positive by 0.4%, a lift in this
market following Friday's gains snapping
a three-day losing streak. Coming at us
that one hundred this morning higher by
0.5. If you switch at the board and get
to the bond market, two-year, 10-year
and 30-year bond yields down across the
board this morning. Down by one on twos,
down by two on tens. Your 10-year 415
going into a week full of economic data
where we hope, and I keep saying that
word, we hope we get the payrolls report
this coming Friday.
>> If the government shuts down, we
probably will not get that labor market
report and then all of a sudden we will
have a jolting report that's going to
jolt the market disproportionately.
Volatility on the heels of all the
peripheral measures, I think, is what to
watch this week.
>> If you are intrigued by the payrolls
report, if we get it, the median
estimate is 50K. The low is -20 and the
high is positive 105 and a lot of I
don't know somewhere in between. Two
hours from the open and balance, let's
get you some single names and morning
movers. Let's cross over to Danny Burger
for more. Hi Danny. Hey John, Occidental
rising this morning up 1.4% in FT story
that they're looking at selling their
OxyChem unit. It's their petrochemical
unit. It would go for about 10 billion
dollars. They didn't name a buyer but
they have been offloading a lot of their
assets in a bid to reduce some of their
debt. So again, those shares rising this
morning. Also rising ahead of their
earnings is Carnival Cruises. Those
shares up 1.2%. They'll be reporting
their earnings at 9:15 or thereabouts
a.m. this morning. A lot of enthusiasm
about it. Barclays points out that
they're probably going to come out with
a strong showing especially given that
some of their peers, Royal Caribbean,
alongside some of the other ones like
Norwegian Cruises have been doing really
well. By the way, Matt Miller and I will
be speaking to the Norwegian Cruises CEO
in the 10:00 a.m. hour. So one to pay
attention to later this morning.
Finally, wrapping things up with weed
stocks this morning having an excellent
morning. Tilray up 18% for example,
Canopy at 14, Aurora Cannabis up 10.7%
after President Trump put a video on
Truth Social kind of looks like an
infomercial sort of thing that touted
the benefits for CBD for seniors. So off
the back of that, you get this rally.
John. Danny, thank you. More from Danny
in the next hour. Appreciate it. Danny,
thank you. On the radar this morning,
President Donald Trump saying
negotiations for a Gaza peace deal are
in the final stages. The president
meeting today with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the White
House. President Trump meeting with a
bipartisan group of congressional
leaders as well today as a government
shutdown looms. Trump says the shutdown
is likely unless Democrats drop their
demands to extend health insurance
subsidies. And finally, Vice President
J.D. Vance saying he's confident that US
version of TikTok has been successfully
separated from its Chinese parent
company. President Trump signing an
executive order last week approving the
proposed deal. There's still a lot of
questions about exactly what the
parameters of this are. Oracle to own
something like 45% of it and then this
idea that the ByteDance operation over
in China will get 50% of the profits
from the US entity but the algorithm
will be run by the United States. A lot
of questions about Xi signing off on
this, what exactly this is contingent on
and this really has raised a lot of
questions about the larger deal. People
saying this was incremental. More
discussion about what else has been
agreed upon between Xi Jinping and
President Donald Trump.
>> price I want to talk about. Brent was
joining us a little bit later.
>> Given that it's nothing. It's like
nothing compared to what this would get
if they just spun it off.
>> Yeah, so what do you think of that? Do
you think that this was just sort of
a devaluation to give easy, cheap entry
point to the US investors coming in? Do
you think that this is trying to
downplay the value of this asset in the
United States? I mean, what's the what's
the ramifications given the fact that it
should be twice as expensive at least.
>> I'll let others speculate. I'll just say
that those that have got their fingers
in this pie have done pretty well and
will do pretty well in the years to come
based on the appetite for that app. We
all feel for Larry Ellison about how
he's done so far and are really happy to
hear that he's added to his wealth.
Congratulations.
>> I I don't even think the smallest
violin. I can't even play that but
Larry's life is just so good. It's
ridiculous. I mean, honestly, between
the sailing and his private islands and
his endless wealth. Yeah. He's having a
good time. Let's put it that way. Let's
stick with tech. McKinsey estimating
that data centers will require 6.7
trillion dollars to meet demand for
computing power globally by 2030.
Private credit firms are laying the
groundwork to help provide the capital.
Meta is set to have selected PIMCO to
help lead a 29 billion dollar financing
for its data center expansion. I'm happy
to say the PIMCO CEO, Manny Roman, joins
us now for more. Manny, good morning.
Good morning, Jonathan. Nice to see you.
>> It's good to see you, sir. How does a
man like you deal with a 3:00 a.m. alarm
clock on the West Coast? How does that
work? You've got hours of prep. I make I
make the best espresso known to mankind.
You know, and you'll be happy.
>> Triple espresso?
>> Triple espresso and it feels good every
day and happy to be at work.
>> Well, I'm happy to have you with us this
morning. Let's get into some of these
deals. I know there's certain deals you
can't talk about, can't talk about. Want
to talk in broad terms about the
appetite here for the capital that we
need to provide to this particular
force, this growing force. AI data
centers, where it's going to come from
and where you and the team are going to
fit in. So I think it's I mean it's it's
a huge super secular opportunity. There
is an enormous need for funding and
equity in data center.
We I don't know whether the 6.7 trillion
dollars from McKinsey is remotely right
but it's very, very big and there'll be
plenty of financing deals to be done.
And there'll be plenty of construction
to be done and it's true in the US but
it's true in other part of the world.
And
the need also to have the infrastructure
and the energy will come after that. So,
you know, we all talk about data center
but there's going to be a real rush for
energy in terms of providing the right
setup for all these data center and, you
know, that's one of the reason to be
very bullish on natural gas. We've
reflected on one particular statement
from one particular tech CEO over the
last 12 months that I think was really
quite important. It was last summer. It
was the Alphabet CEO. When essentially
he said that the greatest risk here was
underinvesting and not overinvesting.
And I wonder how you think about that
from the perspective as an asset manager
when you've got a group of companies
that are willing to run the risk of
overinvesting. How do you think about
the risk around it? In terms of
I think what we will do is we will look
at every single deal and we will say
this makes sense for us and this may
make less sense. And I think I think we
I think one of the one of the strength
we have is to be to be pretty um
pretty focused on relative value and
sort of thing that
you know, there may be a fantastic deal
to be done which will be very, very good
for investors and then we look at the
next one in the full light of day and
decide whether it fits our portfolio and
whether this is something we want to do.
I think it's important to build on this.
The Mark Rowan said recently, we are
what we originate.
When it comes to private markets, you
are what you originate. It's quite
labor-intensive. It takes a lot of work.
When you think about scaling this and
building this is an opportunity, how
difficult is it in practice?
I think we I think we have built it
differently from Mark. We have built it
based on our experience in fixed income,
our experience in relative in a history
of 54 years in looking at all sorts of
credit. We have 55 credit analysts who
looks at every single segment of the
market. And I think we look at it from a
value standpoint. Does it make sense? Is
it something we want to do? We shouldn't
be originating for the sake of
originating. And there's a lot of money
there's a lot of money coming to this
market. You know, some sectors will be
very attractive and some will be less
so. And I I think you want to be very
much on top of this and say, I want to
do this and I want to do less of this.
There's a concern, especially as CEOs
say, it's more important to be throwing
enough money at this rather than being
under invested. Then you have people
like David Einhorn of Greenlight coming
out and saying the numbers that are
being thrown around are so extreme that
it's really really hard to understand
them. How difficult is it to invest in a
market where people are throwing
spaghetti at the wall to try to
understand what's going to stick. And
there is a feeling of excess that
continues to bubble up around this.
>> friend my friend Richard Thaler who who
uh is a uh an an economic Nobel Prize
and consult for us has this this say. He
says, you know, when you make long-term
product prediction, the degree of
humidity and the standard deviation
around the estimate should be very very
big. So when I when I hear an estimate
like 6.7 trillion dollars, I don't know
what to make of it. David may be very
well be right, but we'll take it one
step at a time. I I I I think 6-month
horizon is about all we can do in terms
of the demand. And then, you know, the
environment may change dramatically. You
know, there are business cycles.
Sometimes things are cheap, sometimes
they're expensive. If there's a
recession, all of a sudden spreads will
widen, company may revisit what they're
trying to do, and so on and so forth.
>> is the difficulty. How do you have a
6-month horizon when a lot of these
investments are 10-year build-outs, when
they're 10-year usage, when they are
labor-intensive, and infrastructure
projects by nature are a lot longer than
6 months? So in terms of committing
capital and in terms of finding the
right opportunity with the right amount
of time, we're totally fine to have a
very long-term horizon. What I'm saying
is I'm saying making long-term
prediction in terms of how big the
market will be it's very hard. I think
you have some visibility over the next 6
months in terms of what the demand is,
what the real demand is, and whether
that slows down or whether that
accelerate. You just don't know. And I
think I think you got to have I think
you have to be very humble about these
things and just say, look, we we'll take
it one step at a time and see what the
market gives us. And by the way, there
may be other opportunity which are more
attractive. You know, you you look, for
example, in our asset-backed finance
business, aircraft leasing. Aircraft
leasing is incredibly interesting and
then nothing happens for 5 years and
then it becomes very interesting again.
And you got to constantly say to
yourself,
are there better opportunity for me to
deploy money?
And what do I want to do? How do I think
about the risk? How will I get out?
What's the right risk-return profile?
You made a headline recently. Wanted to
ask you about it. Private markets
haven't been tested. Can you build that
out a little bit more? What did you mean
when you said that the private markets
haven't been tested? Well, my my partner
uh Dan Iverson and uh our CIO of core uh
Mohit Mittal have the chart. And we we
checked the number about 20 times cuz we
kind of didn't believe it. But it shows
the return on weak single B,
which is a relative reasonably good
proxy for
um direct lending.
And what you see is you make money
because the yield is higher.
And then
there's a recession
and then you lose it all.
And so I'm old enough to remember mem-
to remember 1991. I saw that.
You know, there's a recession which came
out of nowhere from,
you know, essentially S&L having too
much high yield. 1997, the world is
absolutely fine until there's an Asian
crisis and then you have LTCM and then
things become very cheap. And so you got
to remember these things. And and and we
have been in a period since 2009 of
exceptionalism where you have had very
strong equity return and very strong
higher return. If you believe this is
going to this is going to continue for
the next 15 years, then I think you
should have the same position. But it
may not be the case. And I think I think
we bring that and say the data's at the
data. And do you see parallels between
now and those periods?
Well, I think we still the initial
condition where we are right now are
such that equity markets are expensive
by any measure. They may go higher
because momentum is strong. And credit
market are tight in some part of the of
the of the spectrum. And I think that's
that's the reality. And look, we've been
in period where things things are
expensive for a long time. 2005, 2006
were such period where things remain
expensive and became more expensive. And
then something breaks and then
uh all of a sudden uh you have uh
you have a lot of work to be done. We're
going to spend some time on that in just
a moment. Manny Roman's going to stick
with us, the PIMCO CEO, Manny Roman.
Let's take the opportunity to get you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg Brief. Let's cross
over to Yahaira for more. Hey, Yahaira.
Hi, John. Lufthansa is planning to cut
4,000 administrative jobs by 2030 as the
carrier seeks to improve profitability.
The job reductions will occur through
digitalization, automation, and process
consolidation with a majority of the
reductions in Germany.
Meanwhile, First Brands has filed for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy. A group of
creditors are set to provide the
automotive parts company with $1.1
billion in debtor-in-possession
financing to keep operations running.
This comes after mountains mounting
scrutiny over First Brands' reliance on
borrowing
against future cash flows.
And gold is pushing to a fresh record
above 3 3,800 dollars an ounce. The
precious metal is getting a boost from
investors concerned about a potential
government shutdown and pulling back
from the US dollar. Other metals,
including silver, palladium, and
platinum are also rallying. Gold is up
over 45% this year. That's your
Bloomberg Brief, John. What a rally for
2025. Yahaira, thank you. More from
Yahaira in about 30 minutes time. Up
next, excessively restrictive.
The neutral rate is drifting down. And
uh as a result of that, it's incumbent
upon policy to adjust in response. And
the longer that policy stays excessively
excessively restrictive, the greater the
risks to the downside for the economy.
That conversation will continue with the
PIMCO CEO, Manny Roman, live from New
York City this morning. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to all. Equity futures on
the S&P 500 firmer here by 0.4%.
Likewise on the Nasdaq, higher by 0.5.
Under Savannah's this morning,
excessively restrictive.
My view is not one of enormous economic
pessimism. You know, I don't think the
economy is about to crater. I don't
think the labor market's about to fall
off a cliff. However, the neutral rate
is drifting down. And uh as a result of
that, it's incumbent upon policy to
adjust in response. And the longer that
policy stays excessively excessively
restrictive, the greater the risks to
the downside for the economy. Investors
turning their attention to this week's
Fed speak and the jobs data after
Friday's soft inflation print. The PIMCO
CEO, Manny Roman, is still with us and
he's back for more. Manny, let's
continue the conversation we were
having. Equity markets very close to
all-time highs. Credit spreads near
multi-decade tights on investment grade.
High yield spreads near the tights of
the year. And yet we've got a Fed
official saying they were excessively
restrictive.
You're across a a range of funds. You
look across markets all the time in the
economy with the team. Do you see any
signs they're excessively restrictive?
Well, I think rates are very high across
across the globe, right? And I think I
think, you know, part of the reason why
I get up so early and and happy to go to
work is because, you know, the
opportunity has never been better. And
you know, we talk here about the US, but
look at the UK. The UK, where you're
from, is, you know, 10-year rates are 4
and 3/4. Australia looks really really
attractive. So when we think about the
opportunity, you know, way, yes, we do
expect the Fed to cut. How much they're
going to cut next year remains to be to
be proven. No one knows what's going to
happen to the labor market. But the
reality is the opportunity in terms of
global fixed income is very very big.
And the opportunity to add alpha
um is quite high. I I'll tell you a
funny story. We have a partner in Tokyo
um called Tomoya Masano. And you know,
for the longest time there's not much
happening in Tokyo. So you sort of call
him and you have matcha with him and not
much is happening. And then all of a
sudden the Japanese fixed income market
becomes super exciting. And then there's
a lot to do. And there's a whole
generation of people who have
disappeared cuz they don't do it
anymore.
And so you have a labor market which
hasn't supplied fixed income investor
because there was nothing to do for the
longest time. And so what I think is
interesting is the difference of view,
the difference of opinion
is also a source of incredible alpha.
And you know, if you want to think about
why performance has been quite good,
it's partially because the alpha that
has been given by the market is quite
good. I think it's interesting that John
was talking about the Fed and you talk
about the international sphere. And I
think that that's really uh telling
about what people are looking to for
that alpha, for that incremental extra
yield. Are those Japanese investors
staying in Japan right now and not
coming to the US for Treasuries even if
the Fed cuts? No, I think they're very
big investors in in US assets. And
remember, one of the opportunity
everyone has is to buy foreign assets
and swap them back into dollars or swap
them back into yen and so on and so
forth. And so you can actually buy
synthetic credit. You can buy synthetic
dollar exposure
by
for US investors buying, for example,
JGB and selling forward the yen into
dollar and having a different credit
risk with JGB than you have with US
dollar. And so, there's a lot to do.
Now, we do that a lot in short-term and
longer-term in terms of adding alpha,
but all the time you can do this sort of
transaction and sort of
mitigate your exposure or increase your
exposure or have different risk profile.
That's a much smarter way of looking at
it. I'm looking at this with sort of a
blunt instrument. Sort of dumb. Do you
like international more than the United
States?
>> let me check Japan. Japan really
wonderful nuance view. Japan has an
enormous amount of money to put to work
and and and and has is a nation of
savers. And so, there's an
there's you know, the reason the thing
that I always say is you need to put
your money somewhere.
And the reality is the US is the only
place where you can actually put scale.
And when you want to think, for example,
of the Australian problem, there was a
whole delegation last week from the UN
from Australia.
They need to move capital away from
Australia because they are a nation of
savers and the Australian market is not
big enough for them. And so, they need
to pivot to For a long time, Japan had
to do the same thing. They didn't have
the yield. To your point, the story's
changed. One thing we're trying to track
is whether the Japanese bring the money
home, whether we see this great
repatriation where it could leave
markets vulnerable where typically they
deploy that capital. I'm thinking of
certain European markets, the US as
well. You seeing any of that flow story
start to turn? No, not so far. Would you
expect it to change?
Honestly, not really. These things are
very, very slow to move. And the reality
is people keep on saving in Japan. And
so, it may just be that the marginal
dollar goes into JGB, but the credit
markets are very underdeveloped. And if
you want to buy, for example, single
exposure,
you're much better off going to the US.
The conversation we had back in April
was maybe the decline of US
exceptionalism. The money was going to
leave. It's going to go elsewhere.
I want to understand where you are now 6
months later. What did you see at the
time in April? Did we start to see that
decay click into US exceptionalism? And
are we back to where we were at the
start of the year just 6 months later?
So, I think we we were dollar
underweighted. We literally just squared
off our position.
We still very much like emerging market
currency. We do like Australian dollars.
Um there's plenty to do, but you know,
there was there was a short dollar
position to be had. And you know, it
moved 10% and I think we decided to
square our position. You're talking a
lot about rates and the era of income.
We've been talking a lot about that just
based on the fact that yield has been
higher. Talking about private
investments through infrastructure.
You're not mentioning equities. And this
is a time when people are talking about
>> income I'm a fixed income guy. No, I
know. And then where you have sympathy
with us, but I'm wondering how much a
higher rate regime limits future equity
returns. We used to talk about that.
That was before 3 years consecutive 20
plus percent returns. I mean, at what
point will it constrain the equity side
of the portfolio even though some people
are wondering what kind of buffer bonds
really provide? Well, the PIMCO view is
that equity return in the US is going to
be 6% for the next 3 years or something
like this. I mean, we we you know, we
look at Cape valuation. You know, it's
it's trading at 28 times earnings. It
looks really, really high to us. We
understand the excitement about
the hyperscaler, but if you look outside
of the hyperscaler,
life in industrial America isn't great.
I mean, top line is not is not is not
growing. And one of the question that we
don't know is the impact of tariff and
what will happen in corporate America in
terms of
how they're going to deal with either
passing on prices or diminishing margin
and so on and so forth. And we don't
know that. And so, there's a whole leg
of the of the of the equation that we
haven't really seen. Stock investors
have been trying to out-bull each other
this morning. And Max Kettner was on
earlier of HSBC and he was saying,
"Look, he thinks that the Fed is making
a policy error by cutting more
significantly, but they're along for the
ride because it's just going to inflate
the prices of assets significantly. They
want to gain from that." Do you agree
with that assessment?
Well, I
I haven't I haven't listened I haven't
listened to to him. So, I I I would not
be um Good good initial punt. I mean,
you still think that yeah? I don't I
don't
I don't know. I have we have a lot of
trust in in the Fed in terms of them
doing the right thing. And I think that
the Fed usually doesn't know much more
than we all do. They look at the same
data. And so, the decision is a very
well thought out decision where they
will decide what to do with the
condition that they are being given. And
if, for example, we were to see a very
bad inflation print, it would be very
difficult for them to cut.
Now, they may argue that they have to
look through inflation and so on and so
forth, but the Fed is a very rational
actor in the market. And I don't think
anything's going to change. And the same
goes for
the Central Bank in the UK and the ECB
and so on and so forth. And I think I
think once you're in a job, you behave
your changes also in terms of how you
think about what the right thing to do
is. Are you alluding to the the new Fed
chair next year?
>> No, I'm I'm just I'm just saying it's
it's it's like being a Supreme Court
justice. You know, it's a very important
job and I think people take their job
very seriously. There could be a big
change next year. There's going to be a
new Fed chair. Do you expect to be to
see any daylight between a Fed chair
selected by appointed by this White
House and
Chairman Jay Powell and his current
leadership?
Do you know, I I I was reflecting on
this and what we're talking about is I
mean, every single Fed chair has been to
some degree a political appointee.
And
you know, there's been a history of very
good Fed chair since the Burns
and the Nixon presidency. And I see no
reason why that would change. The list
of candidates we've seen so far, we've
said it repeatedly, very credible names
on that list from this White House and
the Treasury. And it is it is it is it
is important to remember that it's in
everyone's incentive to have a very
credible Fed chair because the market
will not like
a non-credible Fed chair.
You running? I was going to say
>> it? No. No. You have dinner at West
Coast, right?
>> He didn't answer us. That means yes.
He's confirmed. I don't think I don't
think money wants that job. And it's
good to see you. Thank you, sir. Good to
see you. Thank you for having me.
>> this at Newport next time. Okay.
Absolutely.
>> When the weather starts to warm up a
little bit Or when it's very cold in in
the US.
>> well, either way, it's a time of year
works for me. You know, January time.
We'll try and make that happen. All
right. Manny, thank you, sir. Appreciate
it. Manny Roman there, the PIMCO CEO.
Coming up, Jonathan Golub of Citi
Private Bank, Brent Schill of Jefferies,
Lindsey Piegza of Stifel, and Jim Caron
of Morgan Stanley. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance is up next.
[Music]
We lost some of that underlying momentum
in the equity market.
>> We're heading towards a seasonally
weaker October. It is getting more
challenging as the valuations are
getting tapped out.
>> relying on such a small cohort of names
to drive this kind of upside.
>> There's as much melt up risk as there is
melt down. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. Equity
futures positive by 0.5% on the S&P 500.
On the Nasdaq, up by 0.6. In the bond
market, a rally. Yields down by three
basis points on 10s ahead of a massive
week for economic data.
>> Yeah, that's supposed to be capped off
by non-farm payrolls that we probably
won't get. Although, maybe there'll be
some deal struck in the next 24 hours
after that October 1st deadline. Look,
this is going to be a week where all the
other data is going to take on that much
importance. I feel like a broken record,
but at the same time, ISM manufacturing
tomorrow, the JOLTS job openings data,
the sentiment data, what we get from
ADP, all of these other metrics are
going to take on that much more
importance because if we don't get the
non-farm payrolls on Friday and we don't
get CPI in the following week, the Fed
has no new information before their next
meeting. They've got a deal to work
through as well. The team at Bloomberg
leading the reporting on this, just
confirmed by the company itself, video
game maker Electronic Arts going private
at about $210 a share. This is a $50
plus deal. The agreement and the
investors behind it, Silver Lake
Management, Saudi Arabia's Public
Investment Fund, and Jared Kushner's
Affinity Partners. And it comes with a
25% premium to Electronic Arts closing
price on Friday. This is one of the
largest leveraged buyouts ever. I
believe it would be one of the year's
biggest deals, potentially the largest
buyout on record. And it raises a
question about where we are in the
cycle. When you start to see massive
leveraged buyouts, it doesn't make you
feel like you're at the beginning stages
of some sort of rally or market cycle.
So, does this feed into this idea that
we're reaching some sort of pinnacle or
euphoric kind of feel? Or is this just
what makes sense has been on hold for
the past 3 years as people remained on
the sidelines?
>> Idiosyncratic gets thrown around a lot,
but I'd say this is another data point
in a long list of data points that
you've just gone through about where
markets are right now. The door is wide
open for deal making. And if anything,
this Fed's about to juice things even
further with rate reductions.
>> So, it goes to this conundrum that
Stephen Myron tried to
parse out, the idea of financial
conditions being conflated with Fed
monetary policy. A lot of people could
argue, myself included, depending on
what hat I'm wearing, that if you do cut
rates, that would be easing financial
conditions at a time where the financial
conditions already are incredibly easy.
Other people might say, well, there are
different sets of factors with those
leveraged buyouts that might be
reasonable and have nothing to do with
Fed policy. Nonetheless, you can imagine
if the Fed cuts rates, it will only
encourage more of this. And let's take
the Max Kettner argument over HSBC. Max
is super bullish, if you didn't know.
Max is essentially saying there are
things that matter to the equity market
and things that matter to the Federal
Reserve. And the things that matter to
the equity market are pretty good right
now. Big tech's doing okay, printing
money, earning loads, stocks are higher,
fantastic. The things that matter to the
Fed not so great right now. Labor
market's seen a real step down in
payrolls growth. They're the kind of
things that make the Fed nervous. They
got to respond to it. So, as far as he's
concerned, the market gets the best of
both worlds. Gets the profit profile of
the big tech players or the S&P 500.
Also gets the rate cuts from the Federal
Reserve as they respond to nervousness
about the labor market. And in his view,
you get the asset price inflation that
he wants to be on top of. That's the
trend he wants to ride. My issue with
that, and I think that you're right. I
think a lot of people would agree with
that, which is the reason why you're
seeing upgrades from Goldman Sachs, from
from others.
The only issue from that is if you have
a hammer, everything is a nail. And for
the Federal Reserve, they might be
trying to solve a problem with the wrong
tools. And that might be the asset price
bubble. And he was saying he does think
it's going to be a policy mistake. I'm
talking about Max Kettner now. But it
doesn't mean he shouldn't go along for
the ride, which is a lot of people, what
a lot of people are saying. Guess what
stocks are doing this morning? Up again,
up by 0.5% on the S&P 500. Coming up
this hour, Jonathan Gollub's back of
Seaport Global as stocks trade near
all-time highs. We'll catch up with
Brent Thill of Jefferies on why he
thinks the US TikTok deal is massively
undervalued. And Lindsey Pixer of Stifel
as investors await the latest payroll
data later this week. We begin this hour
with Stocks Edge and Kaya as bullishness
in tech stocks continues to grow.
Jonathan Gollub of Seaport Global
writing consensus narrative holds that
irrational exuberance towards AI is the
driving force behind the success of
tech. The data contradicts those
assertions pointing to superior
earnings. Jonathan joins us now for
more. Jonathan, good morning. Morning.
And congratulations, sir. You're an old
friend and it's great to see you in a
new seat. Yeah, I mean I'm I could not
be more excited about the Seaport. It's
just this really cool small um boutique
research shop and you know, 30
you know, fantastic senior analysts.
It's really great to be part of it. It's
cool to get the opportunity to catch up
with your first right here on Bloomberg.
So, let's talk about your recent views.
You've heard the term irrational
exuberance back in the '90s. It's on
repeat. Here we are in 2025. You think
it's misplaced. Let's start with why.
Well, I mean, you take a look at let's
say the third quarter earnings outlook.
The big tech companies are just keep
ratcheting the their the expectations
just keep ratcheting higher and higher.
These are not stories where valuations
are going up because investors are
exuberant. The the investor class keeps
underestimating how good the earnings
picture is. They crushed earnings during
the last earning season. The estimates
on these names keeps getting pushed
higher and the stock prices are not
higher in valuations on big tech.
They're flat for the year. And the
reason is because the earnings are
driving the superior results.
>> Can you say the same thing about the
rest of the S&P 500?
>> No. No, I mean, you know, it's kind of a
strange thing that if you actually say,
well, what's expensive? The rest of the
market is not being driven by earnings
and it's being driven by valuations. I
would argue that investors around the
world are getting sucked into the US
market because of great tech earnings.
And then what what do they you know, and
then you buy this larger basket and the
valuations are going up on the non-tech
part of the of the market and the tech
stuff seems incredibly healthy. So, it's
the Magnificent Six. That's what you're
arguing for. That that should be what
people invest in. Who gets kicked out of
the Magnificent Seven? Well, well, first
of all, I don't consider tech I don't
consider Tesla a a tech stock. So, I
don't include it. It's not because it's
not a wonderful company, but it's just
not part of it. Um but I don't think we
should be looking at these companies and
saying um they're doing really well.
Let's create an acronym and just kind of
shove their name in and then we switch
again. This is what Wall Street does. We
carry on.
>> but but it's silly. I mean, there there
is there are six huge tech companies
that are growing at this unbelievable
pace at these very high profit margins.
And here's the key, the stock prices are
following the earnings growth of these
companies. They're the biggest six. It's
not like we're you know, we we we know
we could listen, you and I can go and we
you know, if we want to come up with an
acronym, we can throw Oracle in there.
It's had great returns. And let's throw
Palantir in there. And we'll and we'll
sit there with the you know, with the
Scrabble board. That's that's not what
it's about. It's like it's these are the
big names and they're they're big not
because we fell in love with them.
They're big because they're just
out-earning everything. So, at a certain
point, are you saying that you could see
gains driven by the magnificent
whatever, by big tech stocks, and at the
same time you end up with the rest of
the index falling further behind and
that equal weight, which everyone has
been trying to go to, actually
underperforming yet again for another
year? Probably will. No, yeah, I mean,
and if you take a look at let's say for
example, the S&P ex the big six, and
then you look at global equities, they
kind of look the same. You know, the the
the non-US basket and the US basket ex
these six companies, they sort of feel
like I mean, I've talked to global
investors recently. We're kind of doing
a barbell that you know, in their global
portfolio, they're they're buying these
these companies that you can only get in
the US. And then the rest of the
portfolio, they're putting their dollars
in in you know, in other sectors abroad
and that's how they're coming up with
their balance. And that makes sense.
>> diversify the exchange rate
diversification story, the exposure to
the US dollar? What is that about? Is it
just about getting an exposure to the
European bank rally? What's the
diversification abroad about?
Well, first off, if you look at the
outperformance we've had year-to-date of
non-US, it's it's nothing but a currency
issue. So, the the underlying earnings
are are still better in the US and and
the like. But if you're running a a
global equity fund, you feel compelled
to have similar you know, weights to the
benchmark. So, if you want to if you
want to grab all of this exposure in
these big tech numbers in the US, so you
buy a consumer staple company in Europe
because well, a consumer staple company
in Europe kind of feels like a US US
consumer staple company.
>> have questions about US equity market
exceptionalism? Do you have any
questions about that at all?
I mean, not right not right now. I mean,
there's there's there's a ton of reasons
why over the long run, the US should do
better. I mean, we have you know, if you
look at the venture capital in you know,
industry which has embedded itself in
our universities and and the the fact
that it's not it's not a surprise that
that the not only that the top six, but
if you look at the suite of the top 20
tech companies, the vast majority of
them are in the US. There's something
about the operating environment that we
have here that is you know, that's So,
it's great, John. I would also say the
deep pool of risk-seeking capital. I
remember Jeff Bezos came out and talked
about the secret sauce of the American
economy. It's the fact that you can
raise 50 billion just like that, you
know, for something that may or may not
succeed. And we've seen something else
like that again this morning with
another deal announced. These are the
kind of deals that you would only see in
America. You wouldn't see a deal like
that I'll swear this morning. Yeah,
although some people might say that
that's the folly potentially of the
market cycle, too. Which is one thing
that people will you know, potentially a
negative thing.
>> want to jump in and say you said
>> Please. the liquidity on US companies is
just much better. Part part of it is
there's more regular reporting in the in
the in the US with with quarterly
reporting. I don't I don't need to be a
hot boy on that.
>> John, you've come there. So, let's talk
about it. Now, you touched it. But
there's but there's a whole bunch of
reasons why when non-US companies
redomicile into the US,
their stock prices go and it's not just
simply because people are chasing them,
it's the the US market is deeper, it's
more liquid and you know, Are we putting
it at risk? Are we putting it at risk?
You talked about quarterly reporting.
You're alluding to changes we might see
from the SEC. Are we putting some of
that at risk?
>> Well, let's there's a really simple
bottom line on this. Investors want
transparency. If the government says you
only need to report every six months,
large companies are going to get who go
to semi-annual reporting, whether it's
voluntarily or or required. If they move
to semi-annual, their stock prices are
going to go down because they're
providing less liquidity. They will
voluntarily report quarterly because
because someone is going to tell the
board, rightly, if you if you do not
provide transparency, your stock price
is going to sell at a lower price and
they are not going to do that.
>> We've had an entire conversation about
US equities without talking about the
Fed. Is that just not even on your
radar?
It's
It's first let's let's look at what I
think the biggest issue cuz you talked
about if they don't get this incremental
information or they go, you know, what
are they you know, what are they going
to do?
The bottom line is that the market
expects another four cuts between now
and the end of '26. You know, and so we
need to kind of extend the the horizon.
The Fed is going to be friendly to
capital markets over the next you know,
year plus. And whether or not we're
talking about what the makeup of the Fed
is or what they do in the next two
meetings, it it really doesn't matter.
What really is driving the market from a
credit point of view, the market is like
five times more sensitive to high yield
spreads. And and you talked about
somebody one of you talked about
financial conditions. If you look at the
Chicago Fed's measure of financial
conditions. If you look at the St. Louis
Fed's measure of financial conditions,
you have an environment where liquidity
is plentiful, the market is is operating
well. And yet and I totally agree with
your your when you talk about Max, I
think it was before. Um and you know, he
was the things that the Fed sees is they
don't have a growth and inflation
mandate. They have a jobs and inflation
mandate. So, the Fed is reading a weak
jobs environment and they need to to do
and you you know, you talked about a
second ago. They only have one tool and
it's a big hammer and that's and it's
but so they're going to they have they
they're going to feel compelled you
know, the you know, according to
Bloomberg survey 50,000 jobs are going
to be created this month whether whether
we get the report on that or or not.
More than 50,000 people enter the labor
market. You know, you could argue that
this means the labor market is moving
back. The Fed has to act in response to
that and yet you have financial
conditions are great. GDP is strong and
the backdrop for stocks is is is really
liquid. The pain trade's higher. Is that
what you're expecting in the
>> that? The pain trade just continues to
be higher.
Yeah, and I I think the folks who are
are fighting It's not just fighting the
tape and and and people adjusting their
numbers because their targets are too
far behind the market. That's not the
story.
The earnings are coming to the market's
expecting somewhere between like 11 and
14% earnings growth for each of the next
3 years. You know, we're like super
conservative and we're expecting high
single digits and and that's a big
haircut compared to the consensus.
Jonathan, it's good to see you. Good to
be here. Thank you, sir. It's nice to
have you back in action. Jonathan Golub
there of Seaport Global. Equity market
right now up by 0.5%. That is a major go
private deal announced about 10 minutes
ago.
>> Yeah, Electronic Arts with a potential
price tag that's 25% premium raising
questions about what that means for
financial conditions, how loose they
are, how loose they can get if the
Federal Reserve cuts rates further. And
that stock is higher so far this
morning. That will start trading again
going into the open in Milan, I imagine.
210 is the Porsche
agreement with a range of companies this
morning. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yohai Ra. Hey,
Yohai Ra.
>> Hi, John.
President Donald Trump said the
government is likely to shut down unless
Democrats back down from their demand.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer
says a stopgap has to include an
extension of healthcare subsidies. The
top four congressional leaders will meet
with the president today at the White
House just a day before funding is set
to run out.
And as you all were just discussing,
video game maker Electronic Arts is
going private. The deal values the
company at $55 billion. That's the
largest leveraged buyout on record. The
consortium, which includes Silver Lake
Management, Saudi Arabia's Public
Investment Fund, and Jared Kushner's
Affinity Partners agreed to pay $210 per
share in cash.
And President Donald Trump has ordered
his administration to declassify and
release all government records related
to Amelia Earhart, her final trip, and
everything everything else about her.
Earhart vanished during her
groundbreaking flight around the world
one of aviation's greatest mysteries.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John. Yohai
Ra, thank you. Appreciate the update. Up
next, the money cause plus we'll catch
up with Ed Ludlow on the deal to keep
TikTok in the United States.
[Music]
Rates are very high across across the
globe, right? And I think I think, you
know, part of the reason why I get up so
early and and happy to go to work is
because, you know, the opportunity has
never been better. The reality is the
opportunity in terms of global fixed
income is very very big and the
opportunity to add alpha
um is quite high. Triple espresso, PIMCO
CEO Manny Roman. That's how he wakes up
>> Yeah. at 3:00 a.m. on the West Coast.
>> should take that under consideration.
Yeah, ditto.
>> four. Is that what you do?
>> No, I can't. I'd be shaking. And you'd
make fun of me and I'd say things like
Courtney.
>> You know, and like yeah
Yeah, that's what you said a little bit
earlier, yeah.
>> that's what happens to me.
>> In case you missed it. What are we now?
Contrarian Courtney. Okay.
Struggling to keep up with you this
morning. A rare catch up with Manny
Roman. Great to hear from him as always.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 positive
here by 0.5. On the Nasdaq up by 0.6.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some money calls. First that Morgan
Stanley downgrading Wells Fargo to equal
weight noting the key catalyst of asset
cap removal has passed limiting upside.
That stock is down by third. Your second
call from Wells Fargo downgrading
Western Alliance to underweight saying
it won't benefit from interest rate cuts
until next year. That stock is down by
1.4% and finally Deutsche Bank raising
its price target on Intel to 30
applauding steps taken to bolster its
balance sheet. The stock is negative
here by 1.5% after a major rally over
the last few weeks. That's some of the
single names, some of the money calls.
Let's stick with tech. President Donald
Trump signing an executive order
advancing a proposal that would allow
TikTok to continue operating in the US
but the details still remain somewhat
elusive. Bloomberg's Ed Ludlow joins us
now for more. Ed, welcome back to the
program, buddy. What's the latest for
this deal? Yeah, I think the latest is
is a scramble across Washington, D.C.
and the investor base to understand if
the structure of this deal, which a
source phoned me Friday night to read me
from the piece of paper, is compliant
with the 2024 divestment law. You know,
I defer to AMH on on kind of the broader
which Trump's, pardon the pun it, you
know, a congressional mandated piece of
legislation or an executive order. But
basically, ByteDance having 19.9%
in the US only entity
maintains the status quo that it still
has some broader
majority ownership of the global entity
and operational or profit sharing
control and it it's hard based on the
conversations I'm having for those
participants to see how it does comply
with last year's piece of of rule
making. Ed Ludlow with the latest. Ed,
looking forward to the show a little bit
later this morning with Caroline Hyde
Bloomberg Technology in about 3 hours
time. Want to extend this conversation
with Brent Thill of Jefferies calling
the TikTok deal potentially massively
undervalued. Brent, welcome back to the
program. Can we put a number on these
things? Just what are these companies
paying for this asset and how does that
compare to valuations elsewhere?
Yeah, I mean, it's it's hard to see
because the details at 14 billion when
you think about, you know, half the
profits going back. What are all the
details underlying? We don't have the
full list, but I I think the initial
figure was
uh massively undervalued. Was that
giving, you know, the US and and the new
owners an opportunity to to have some
some great upside in terms of the equity
value, but I think anyway anyway uh you
look at it looked
uh under undervalued. Again, we we don't
know the profit sharing agreement, but
uh when you think about other companies
in the social space, when you look at
Meta, uh the rest of the complex, you
look at other comparable tech names, uh
it it looks uh even if they were doing a
profit share, it it still looks
undervalued to uh to to our in our
opinion.
Brent, what do you think the
the ramifications of that are? You think
that it's to give a better deal to other
people? What's the significance of this
for understanding the competitive
dynamics of this particular entity as a
more US owned one?
Yeah, I think for the biggest competitor
is obviously Meta. We think that no
one's going to leave Instagram because
now TikTok's up. You look at most of the
younger audience
including my older friends, they're
between Instagram and TikTok. And then
Snap is really a messaging platform
for the younger audience and they're not
influenced by any of the campaigns that
they run. So there's really not been a
lot of advertiser opportunity because
the the younger audience uses as a
messaging tool so the parents can't see
their messages. And that's about it. And
so the real ramifications really just
socially against Meta and Meta's
continued success has been so great in
the lock-in and the technology
advancements. Uh so we don't believe
that advertisers are going to stampede
away from from Meta. We do think that
ultimately because the stability of the
the asset will create potentially more
excitement for advertisers to
potentially come back for those that
maybe left because there was some
distraction going on through this
process. So I I don't expect, you know,
a massive shift uh in spend. I don't
expect a massive loss from from of
advertisers from from Instagram, but uh
I think the calming the situation down
does help advertisers come back and then
the question becomes
how innovative is the platform going to
get now versus where it was at before.
And so I think there's there's a ton of
innovation. There's a ton of excitement.
But ultimately, I think all all three
platforms serve a different purpose and
most users are going to those three. I I
don't think consumers can can take a
fourth and a fifth.
I think we've been we've been working
through this the last couple years with
with how many can we consume? And right
now we're we're seeing I think those
three, you know, work uh with each other
and they work in different ways. Snap
for com, Instagram for more professional
content, TikTok for more fun content,
and you're you're seeing kind of a in
between in a and hey, I'm I'm I'm I'm
getting bored with this platform. Let's
go over here. I need to send a message
to my buddy. Let's send it here.
Uh so I I don't think there's going to
be any massive changes from what we can
see so far uh unless there's some
massive level of of pick up and
innovation. We we just don't see that.
We see Meta actually moving forward and
Zuck mentioning, you know, there's 3
billion people plus on the Instagram
platform. I think it's it's it speaks to
how good that platform is, how good the
targeting is. Yeah. And the advertisers,
all the checks we do, they've been
gaining market share
against others. So uh even if again
assume TikTok is is successful uh in
terms of some new innovation, I think
it's going to come from other places. I
don't think it's going to come from the
Meta the Meta or Instagram budgets.
>> Brenda, I 30 seconds left. Just quickly,
just announced the largest leverage
buyout on record, Electronic Arts. I
think a long, long time ago you used to
cover this name. What does this make you
think? What's your response in 25, 30
seconds if you can, about the amount of
money just washing around? Tech M&A Tech
M&A is booming. Tech M&A is going to
massively pick up. It has already.
We've already seen, you know, companies
like Atlassian and you you've seen
Workday do, you know, multiple
billion-dollar deals just in a month.
So, you know, M&A is is uh up in a
massive way. You're going to see a lot
more and I think you're going to see
bigger deals. We've heard, you know,
even companies like IBM saying that they
can't do deals,
uh you know, over 10 billion. They've
They've They've taken that away. They've
said we can do much bigger deals under
this administration. So, this is a taste
of what I think you're going to continue
to see. Brent, appreciate it. Thank you,
sir. Brent Thill of Jefferies on TikTok.
And this deal for Electronic Arts, a
mega deal this morning. Yeah, and more
to come, as he says. I just want to say,
I hope that the next innovation, at
least for the kids out there, is pick up
a book. Read a book. That's a new
platform. I think they're good. I hope
that's a new innovation, too, but I
don't think that's happening. I think
that stocks resumed trading. We're up in
the pre-market by about 5%. Live from
New York City, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
Equity futures still positive here by
0.5% on the S&P 500, up 0.6 on the
Nasdaq. Got some Fed speak for you. The
Cleveland Fed President, Beth Hammack,
coming out on the hawkish side, as you'd
expect. Need to maintain restrictive
policy. Inflation expectations concern
me most now. That is just the polar
opposite of the other side of the
spectrum, which is Governor Waller, who
is more concerned about the labor market
than he is inflation. And more people
seem to be coalescing around
prioritizing the labor market. That
said, the fact that the Beth Hammacks of
the world, Raphael Bostic, has come out
in the same kind of place. Even Austin
Goolsbee said he needs to really hold
off for a bit. He isn't happy of
front-loading rate cuts. Raises a
question about whether the bar is
getting a little bit higher for the Fed
to cut beyond maybe another 25 basis
points or 50 this year. Brendan, your
views are getting wider. It's getting
wider. No, no, no, it's getting wider.
It's a big week for the Fed speak and
economic data. In the bond market,
yields down across the board on twos, on
tens. The 10-year down by two basis
points, the 4.15 twos at 3.63, down
about a basis point this morning. For
now, though, we need to get some single
names because this morning a massive
story, the largest leverage buyout on
record. With the details, here's Danny.
Hey, Danny. John, the price tag, $55
billion
to take Electronic Arts private. It's
going to be led by the
by Jared Kushner's firm Affinity, as
well as Silver Lake. The The deal is
also buying the shares out at $210
a share. So, we're not even quite at
those levels yet. 5.6% is the rally that
we're seeing pre-market. By the way, the
high water mark that this beats to the
last big leverage buyout was a company
called TXU. It was a Texas utility
company in 2007 that went on to declare
bankruptcy and lost its buyers a whole
lot of money. Make of that what you
will. Some other deal news to work
through this morning. This one coming
from the FT that Occidental Petroleum is
looking at selling off OxyChem. It's
their petrochemical unit. It would be
for $10 billion.
Should that deal go through, it would
help help Occidental pay down some of
its debt, which it has been doing
through asset sales. Finally this
morning, we're also looking at the
defense companies rallying. Lockheed
Martin up 2.1%, RTX up 2.3%. This
follows a Wall Street Journal story in
the early hours of this morning saying
that the Pentagon is asking the defense
contractors to double or even quadruple,
in some cases, their manufacturing of
missiles. They say the stock pile was
too low should there be a potential
conflict with China. John. Danny, thank
you. Appreciate it. Thank you very much.
Three of the single names and more to
look out for going into the opening bell
in about an hour from now. Turning to
the economy, we're waiting for payrolls
on Friday. I'm wondering if we'll even
get the jobs report. Joining us now to
discuss this Bloomberg's Andy Caren.
Andy, welcome to the program, sir. I
think we've got to address the elephant
in the room. Before we talk about all
this, what it means for the Federal
Reserve, the data this week, will we
even get the jobs report on Friday?
Well, that's the critical question now,
the big unknown, Jonathan.
If the government shuts down tomorrow
night, in truth, most economists think
it's unlikely that they would be
reopened, a deal would be reached in
time for Friday for the data to be
released. So, there is now a question
mark over whether or not we do get the
jobs data Friday due to the government
shutdown negotiations. Bigger picture
then, that doesn't just mean a delay for
the September data. It feeds into the
whole narrative and story around the
quality of the jobs data and broader
data anyway, when there are enough
questions and doubts already circulating
the market about that. And then, thrown
into the mix, of course, what does it
mean for other highly sensitive data
readings like inflation numbers, the
gathering and collection and and
eventual release of all of that. So, a
lot will depend, of course, if the
government does shut down, then how long
the government does shut down for. But,
at the very least, big question mark now
over whether we get the jobs data or
not. So, Andrew, as Lisa
identified a little bit earlier, we have
to basically refer on some of the
private indicators that we get. ADP,
we'll be looking out for the ISM's as
well later this week. Andrew, what kind
of a picture do you have for the economy
at the moment? And just how divided is
the Federal Reserve? We were talking
about it just months ago. It just feels
like at the moment, differences are
getting wider, not narrower on the FOMC.
It doesn't seem to be a binary story on
either the economy or the FOMC,
Jonathan, right now, like you mentioned.
I mean, on the one hand, of course,
we've had this big shift in the jobs
data. Clearly, labor market weaker than
expected. Fed, of course, putting all
focus on that now. It's kind of
consistent thread there. But, you know,
we also had much stronger stronger than
expected third-quarter growth. Consumer
spending on the retail side still
holding up pretty well. We'll get
consumer confidence this week. That's
expected to show a kind of a rebound in
the month of September. So, you have
this kind of picture where the economy
is still holding up even as the jobs
market weakens. Now, of course, if we
were to get that data at the end of the
week, it's expected to show around
50,000 odd jobs created last month. But,
there will be a lot of scrutiny in terms
of where those jobs being made and lost,
and in particular, the manufacturing
sector, politically hot. Is that turning
around? Any signs of a turnaround there?
Are we seeing any any any signs of the
federal job cuts starting to leak
through to the jobs data yet? So, as I
mentioned, headline growth, aggregate
data on the economy, okay. But, the
underlying jobs numbers are are expected
to continue suffering, for sure. Andrew,
thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Andrew,
with the latest down in Washington, D.C.
Got a wide spread of opinions on the
FOMC right now.
So, that means someone could be very
right and someone could be very, very
wrong at the Federal Reserve. And
someone on this committee, many, could
be caught really offside into 2026.
>> You know, the big question, I think, for
markets is what Roman many Roman was
talking about at PIMCO. How much do you
have faith in the members to ultimately
be swayed by the data that comes in,
because they don't know that much more
than the market knows. And ultimately,
if there is a hot print, what inflation
print in particular, how much do they
respond that with either stopping some
of the rate cuts or even possibly
putting a rate hike on the table. That
is the unknown, especially given what
Stephen Myron was talking about, which
is targeting a neutral rate that he sees
as lower and expecting the data to
follow suit. That's the bear case. 2022,
you go into 2022 and you're thinking
inflation's transitory and then you get
absolutely hammered by rate hikes and
the Federal Reserve that has to pivot.
You go into 2026, worried about downside
risk to the labor market. You're talking
about inflation as if it's transitory.
Do you get hammered by a Fed that has to
pivot again? That's the bearish case.
How credible it is right now with other
people, I don't know. But, ultimately,
that's the story. And will the Fed be
willing to do that? Right? I mean,
ultimately, right now, this is not a
market that believes that the
independence of the Fed has been
compromised. You can see that in the
inflation break-evens. You can see that
in a whole host of other metrics. If
that gets to be the case, then all of a
sudden you have a different story. And I
think that that is the test. What
happens and what is the reaction
function when you do get an inflation
print that comes in hot. Let's talk to
someone about it. Lindsey Piegza of
Stifel joins us now for more. Lindsey,
welcome to the program. You've
criticized the Fed in the past for
stopping short of being sufficiently
restrictive. You think they eased too
early last year as well. What mistake
are they making now?
I I I think they're doing another round
of but precautionary easing in
anticipation of this weakness, this fear
of weakness in the labor market, rather
than focusing on the problem that's
right in front of them, which is still
too elevated inflation, as it has been
for years now. So, I am concerned that
the focus is beginning to shift away
from inflation just at a time when the
risk to inflation remains to the upside.
As we look towards the end of the year,
we could see hotter price pressures amid
a stronger growth profile, spendy
consumer as we move into that key
holiday spending season, or as we turn
the corner into next year and
corporations find they need to pass
along more of these cost increases onto
the consumer that were previously
absorbed into the bottom line. So, right
now, I think the Fed would be well
advised to take a very cautious, patient
approach, watching the data as it evolve
and respond to the data, in as opposed
to anticipatory, reactionary easing as
they have been, for fear of that again,
that labor market weakness. Uh Neil Neil
Dutta over at Redmac has been throwing
things at the at the computer screen or
however he watches this show. As he
listens to this, and he says,
ultimately, how much can you have a
re-acceleration without the
participation of the housing market? You
can look at all of these metrics and
raise questions about it, but because
housing is flat on its back and is
actually contributing to disinflation,
isn't that an argument to sort of
squelch some of the inflation warriors?
I I I don't know if we can make that
that specific argument and isolate it to
that degree. Right now, we're looking at
the consumer data. Consumer is the the
backbone of the economy. So, independent
of housing, if the consumer is out in in
spending on goods and services because
there still is a good amount of spending
and power borrowing power on part of the
household balance sheet. I think we can
continue to see at least these 2% ish
growth rates for quite some time, which
will continue to perpetuate this still
elevated inflation. So again, it goes
back to the fact that the Fed did not do
their job the first time around. They
can they compounded that
mistake that policy mistake by easing
last year. Now it appears that they're
willing to do a third round error with
that September rate cut and still a
number of Fed officials talking about
additional easing by this time next
year. So Lindsey, why do you think the
yield curve is flattening?
Well, I think right now the market is
buying into the notion that the Fed will
provide easier policy and the Fed seems
to be or excuse me, the market seems to
be focused on other issues than
inflation, but that's not the only
metric of what we're seeing in terms of
investors concerns. When we look at
inflation expectations, we see that
near-term inflation expectations are
still up near 5%. Longer-term inflation
expectations of over four or excuse me,
up near 4%.
with the Fed continuing to reiterate a
focus on reinstating price stability,
the market isn't buying it. Now the
yield curve, yes, we have seen a lot of
volatility, but a longer base trend
should continue to provide a floor to
longer-term rates given those inflation
expectations, not to mention the massive
expansion of the balance sheet.
>> And yeah, Lindsey, that's not
constraining the Federal Reserve. In
fact, they continue to signal interest
rate reductions. Now, you and I have
played this game a million times. We can
complain about what the Fed should and
shouldn't do. It's the will won't that
really matters to financial markets.
What do you think they will do?
Well, I think right now when you look at
these varying opinions of the Federal
Reserve officials, I think they are
going to at least in the near term stay
pat. They they gave us that insurance
rate cut in September earlier this
month, but when we look out to the end
of the year unless we see a material
decline, further decline in some of
those jobs numbers justifying additional
policy adjustments, I think the Fed is
going to have to stay steady where we
are. Now that being said, the inflation
hawks, they're looking for policy to
maybe even move firmer unless we see a
material uptick in inflation, not just a
temporary few tenths of a percentage
point, but a a sustained upward trended
inflation. I think it's going to be
difficult to justify a rate hike on the
other side. So I think right now the Fed
is more in a position to let's hold
steady, watch the data, and the both
both of the sides, the doves and the
hawks can fight it out over what we see
the data evolve into. Lindsey,
appreciate it. Lindsey Piegza there at
State Street with the latest. I think
those doves and those hawks will
continue to fight it out next month.
Yeah, I wonder what that fight looks
like. Very polite. I don't I don't agree
with you.
>> Governor Waller actually was pretty
diplomatic when we asked him, wasn't he?
About his experience going into the
committee, the need to persuade people,
how open they were to his views. I think
he was being honest, so I don't think
anyone gave him odd looks or refused to
sit next to him, and I think people were
actually welcoming contrarian views that
they could push back on. It was clear
that nobody was particularly convinced,
but he is representing something that
people on Wall Street are talking about.
The big difference, and he talked about
this in our his conversation with us, is
just the speed. How quickly do you need
to get to the ultimate destination for
the Federal Reserve? And that really is
based on what you see in the economy and
what you see evolving.
>> What you see in neutral is.
>> Exactly. That debate's ongoing because
no one really knows what neutral is.
Someone else joked about this, it's not
my line, but they thought it was pretty
curious that people were insulting
Governor Waller about where he thinks
neutral is because neutral can't be
observed and they keep saying that
things are okay as they are because
we're close to neutral,
but neutral can't be observed.
It's a very circular argument where you
find yourself in a tricky position when
you criticize others. Who's on first?
Who's on first? I mean, this whole thing
of it's a very difficult moment,
especially when you're talking about
these theoretical concepts that don't
really exist. You can't observe any of
this. Apart from in real time, you can
say, you know, yeah, we're neither sort
of whatever. One year to lower by two
basis points, 415 on a 10-year this
morning with an update on stories
elsewhere. With your Bloomberg Brief,
here's Yahara. Hey, Yahara. Hi, John.
Video game maker Electronic Arts is
going private. The deal values the
company at $55 billion. That's the
largest leveraged buyout on record. The
consortium, which includes Silver Lake
and management, Saudi Arabia's public
investment fund, and Jared Kushner's
Affinity Partners agreed to pay $210 per
share in cash. Shares are higher, 5.3%.
Meanwhile, President Trump is warning
the government is likely to shut down
unless Democrats ease their demands.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer
says a stopgap has to include an
extension of healthcare subsidies. The
president is set to meet with the top
four congressional leaders at the White
House today, just one day before federal
funding runs out.
And New York City Mayor Eric Adams has
ended his re-election bid. The
announcement follows reports that Adams
was entertaining potential job offers
from the Trump administration and the
private sector. That's in exchange for
bowing out of the race to allow former
governor former New York Governor Andrew
Cuomo to challenge Democratic nominee
Jumaane Williams.
That's Bloomberg Brief, John. Yahara,
thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks very
much for this morning. Up next on the
program, we'll set you up for the day
ahead, plus we'll catch up with Jim
Caron of Morgan Stanley. Looking forward
to that conversation on why the money
will have to stay easy for longer than
you think and what it means for asset
prices. Jim's up next.
[Music]
The big tech companies are just keep
ratcheting the their the expectations
just keep ratcheting higher and higher.
These are not stories where valuations
are going up because investors are
exuberant. The the investor class keeps
underestimating how good the earnings
picture is. Earnings are driving the
superior results. Good to catch up again
with Jonathan Golub of S&P Global,
constructive on the earnings story in
the equity market. Equity futures so far
this morning up by 0.5% on the S&P,
higher by 0.7 on the Nasdaq 100 as we
count you down to the opening bell. Few
things to look out for later on this
afternoon and through the trading week.
Today at 3:00 p.m. Eastern time, the
president meeting with congressional
leaders. Look out for that because
tomorrow government funding runs out.
Then on Wednesday, PMI and ADP data, the
data points to look out for. ISMs in the
mix, too, going through the week. On
Thursday, another round of claims, and
on Friday, maybe
maybe the payrolls report. We'll see if
we get that. Payrolls report is due on
Friday. Let's turn to fixed income.
Treasury yields into the week at their
highest levels in a month as investors
shift focus to Friday's jobs report.
Joining us now to discuss is Jim Caron
of Morgan Stanley. Jim, good morning.
Good morning. We just had the biggest
leveraged buyout deal in history
announced earlier on this morning, and
in your note, you said this, "There is
something deeper at work that may keep
easy policy at work for longer." There's
a lot of money sloshing around, and you
think money can stay easy for longer.
Why is that? Yeah, thank you. Look, I I
think there are a couple of other things
at work here, right? So let's talk about
monetary policy and fiscal policy. Those
are the two policies I'm looking at. On
a monetary policy perspective, the one
thing that's happening is that as the
balance sheet is shrinking, that is
effectively a tightening of policy.
That's that's creating some potential
for liquidity issues in the markets.
That's measured by overnight repo rates,
which have been going up, which is a
sign that bank reserves have been under
a little bit of pressure. So the Fed may
not just be cutting interest rates to
have an insurance cut for the jobs
market, but it could also be there to
try to stave off any type of liquidity
issues. The second point is on fiscal
policy. Fiscal policy, I believe there's
a geopolitical
need or desire to have coercive policy
between whether it's tariffs or a strong
economy driven by tariff-related policy
in order to fund fiscal and
there are other things at work on the
geopolitical side and on the balance
sheet side that could keep the policy
makers at it for longer despite what the
economic numbers are are telling us. Can
you have your cake and eat it, too? This
idea that everything is easing, you're
going to just have an extra boost to
markets. Doesn't seem like people are
worried about inflation. Where's the
rub? That's the rub. It's it's
inflation. As long as you don't get
inflation, then then then you can keep
doing this for a bit longer, but
eventually, obviously, these things come
to an end. So what is happening right
now as far as some of this fiscal
policy, this is tax policy, accelerated
depreciation, this is all in the one big
beautiful bill act and and and what have
you. What that's likely to do is
generate higher productivity, which
means you can have higher growth with
lower inflationary burdens. Your typical
way of thinking about the economy is
that you get stronger growth, and that
leads to higher inflation. But what's
happening is that the unemployment rate
is staying relatively low, but there's
fear that it may actually start to come
up. We're seeing that in the numbers.
The labor numbers we're going to see
some more on Friday and and Wednesday
are are actually showing some signs of
weakness, which means that you're
getting labor at a reasonable price.
There's enough The labor force
participation rate has been going up
despite almost zero immigration. So
people are entering into the workforce.
That's keeping labor costs relatively
low. If you keep wage inflation down,
then you keep consumer inflation down.
That can increase profit margins, and
that can be supportive for equities
broadly. Another way of putting this is
this is the way that one person framed
it to me is, do you need to run the
economy incredibly hot in order to make
it so that a lot of people don't lose
their jobs to AI.
That is the underlying story. That is
exactly right, and that will continue to
happen until there's high wage inflation
that ends up leading to high goods
inflation, and then the Fed has to then
act and start to tighten policy, which
that's not the move that they're doing
right now. They're likely to cut rates
another three times, but that is that
that is exactly right. You have to run
the economy hotter, and you can as long
as you don't get the adverse
inflationary impact. So, for everybody
investing in equity markets and what
have you, this is actually a reasonably
interesting time, and you can see that
to today's futures prices.
>> Does that depend on who leads the Fed?
I I think it does it does to a degree,
but but the productivity boost in the
boom in the CapEx cycle, a lot of this
is really coming from the fiscal policy
side. A lot of that's coming from the
tax accelerated depreciation, and a lot
of the tax policies. It does depend on
who's leading the Fed,
but I don't think that it's an over I
don't think we're overly reliant on that
because if the inflation numbers come
low, their models are pretty hard coded.
They they don't have to worry about
>> Even if inflation spikes, I'm just
wondering will we have a willing partner
in the Federal Reserve just to let this
rip? Yeah, so if inflation spikes, I
think no. I think that everybody will
line up because inflation, whether it's
political or it's economical,
inflation is something that nobody has
any patience for whatsoever. And I think
the Fed, even though people might say
it's become more political, will pivot
on that. Inflation is the one thing
everybody feels all the time. I'm just
thinking about Richard Fisher's speech
back from the Dallas Fed, where he was
talking about beer goggles, where if
you're at a party and you're a little
bit, you know, had a few,
that everything looks good to you. I
just wonder how much people are getting
ahead of themselves with respect to
long-term investments to project out
growth of the next 10 years, and we have
no clue. We have no clue about a lot of
these industries and how they're going
to evolve. We have no clue with video
game creation and whether people are
going to invest so much to play this
particular game or that particular game.
How do you price this out? Okay. So, I
think the best way to do this is to go
back in periods of time in history and
and think about, you know,
forward-looking elements to this. What
we are going through today is a CapEx
cycle. For the last 25 years, we've
really had a housing-led economy.
Housing is not the big driver of growth
and investment right now. It's a very
big part of the economy, don't get me
wrong, but we are in a CapEx-led cycle.
The last time we saw this was about 30
years ago. It was in the mid-1990s. That
CapEx-led cycle brings manufacturing,
brings higher-quality jobs, you get
higher productivity, you get more
profitability, and what you end up
getting is the big one, higher potential
growth. That's what a big CapEx cycle is
it does, and I don't think that people
fully appreciate that because, you know,
it was 25 and 30 years ago. I guess I'm
just thinking about this EA deal, which
I know you don't want to comment on, but
the idea of, you know, The Sims or Call
of Duty, and that we can
put a value around some of these things
10 years out when people aren't playing
some of these more expensive games, and
they're actually on their phones. I
mean, how do you understand how much
money is going to be lost in this
process? So, so the way that I think
that most people going into any type of
an investment deal think about it is
they always think about the discount
rate. That's why interest rates matter
so much. If you believe that interest
rates are going to be lower than
ordinary in this type of a relative to
the amount of growth that we're
potentially going to get, then that
means you're buying things at a cheaper
valuation because you're discounting
those cash flows at a at a lower rate,
which gives you a higher present value.
So, it really depends on your
perspective. If you believe in this
productivity cycle, this CapEx-led
productivity cycle that gives you better
growth with less inflation or at least
stable inflation, then you can actually
value these companies and these
opportunities at a higher valuation, and
that gets back to what I was saying
before is that CapEx, higher
productivity supports higher valuations.
So, what may seem crazy maybe to us or
to other people may not be depending on
how you're thinking about it. Jim,
smart. You always make me think it's
going to catch up. It's going to say it.
Thank you.
Jim Caron of Morgan Stanley, thank you
very much, and thanks to Lisa for
explaining what beer goggles are. Well,
I felt like you were getting into the
dangerous territory there. I think I did
a really good job.
>> fantastic job.
>> Thank you. We're reflecting on the
biggest leverage buyout on record.
Electronic Arts agreeing to sell to a
group of private investors in a deal
that values this company at $55 billion.
It has been deal after deal after deal.
This is fascinating from so many points
of view. First of all, the idea, does
this indicate that we really are at a
place where some of these deals can get
unlocked in this idea of M&A in the tech
sector? Also, just the easy financial
conditions, but also, how do you value
something? I mean, how I was Call of
Duty even going to be popular in 2 years
or is everyone going to go back to
reading books? I'm not a video game kind
of guy.
>> I think that you are.
>> are you. So, you and I are the worst
people to comment on this story from
that from that dimension from that
angle.
>> Yeah, but I can advocate books. True, I
can do the same thing. This was a fun
start to the week. The fun continues
tomorrow. Will we get a payrolls report?
From New York, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.